176 people found this review helpful 11

Not Recommended
7.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
As someone who backed this during the Kickstarter, I really wanted to recommend Boyfriend Dungeon. For a game with such an awesome premise - Fight Your Fears with Weapon-People You Date! - it unfortunately just does not hold up in the face of other options out there, and thus I can't do so, past it being on sale.

tldr: The premise is good, but the game ends just when it feels like it should be opening up. Romance options are hit and miss, feeling like they're cramming 12 one-on-one sessions into 6 scenes. Combat manages to remain fun, but with only two dungeons and a total of 4 bosses, you don't get to really play around with all your options. Snag it on sale, but not full price.

Pros
+The soundtrack is great. Sure, this is subjective, but every piece is smooth and sells the laid-back, fun atmosphere the game is going for.
+The art style is lovely. In the dating sim aspects, character portraits stand out and tell you everything you need to know about a character (at first blush, anyway), while the somewhat blocky style in the dunj-diving felt oddly fitting. Enemy design also felt unique - don't think I've fought fanged-flip phones before.
+The gameplay is fun. Each weapon has their own simple 3 or 4 hit combo, with a mix of light and heavy options. Leveling up your date-level with each one also adds more rider-effects or bonuses to your attacks. While enemies are largely simple, they remain fun to plow through.
+The fashion aspect is a nice touch. I enjoyed swapping outfits.
+No time limit. I did appreciate being able to see all the dating scenes for all the characters on one playthrough.
+Ability to find love - platonic or romantic. This is something I'd like to see more dating sims take up, and I do commend the amount of effort put into this.
+I enjoyed the text messages - Something about them was oddly charming to me.

Cons
-Length. I 100%'d the game in around 7 hours, and the entire thing could reasonably be finished in 5, if not less. Two dunj's, four bosses total... And there isn't exactly a ton of room variety in the dunjs' either. 1-on-1 moments with your weapon help break up the monotony in a dunj, but it just becomes padding after a while. It feels like there should have been at least one more dunj, if not two. There is just not enough content, outside of wanting to see all the different dates. And speaking of the dates...
-The dates feel rushed. Every weapon gets an initial intro scene in some way, though Isaac and Sunder get the most by virtue of being the tutorial characters. But past that, everyone gets a very cramped story arc fit into 6 scenes - and for some, even parts of those feel a bit like filler! Pocket, by virtue of being a cat, gets that the worst, but as a cat, I can let it slide, especially for the bizarre finale. For the rest, dialogue in general felt a bit... lackluster. The best scenes were ones where the characters actually *talked* about something important - Seven's discussion of his problem stands out as a very believable scene that made me care about him much more than I had before. As a counter-point, I can barely recall anything I did with Sawyer, past 'bad at basic cooking.'

It feels like the game needed more time in the oven, and I think Kitfox knew this - but in an effort to get the game out in a reasonable time, they pushed two of the stretch-goal characters out as future-patch/dlc and sent it out. Unfortunately, I don't see more dates + extra clothes or hats extending the game in the way it clearly needs - and deserves. At *least* two new dunj and probably some other villain would be necessary. The lore has some neat things going on, it's just a shame it never gets truly examined past offhand remarks. I want to know why some people can change to weapons, and others can't. I want to know what it is about Verona Beach that makes dunj's of people's fears appear. It's all got style and charm but there's so little substance...

In conclusion, I want to recommend Boyfriend Dungeon - I wanted to love this game! But unfortunately, just like the MC's summer, this dunj-dive ends too soon to feel like something meaningful took place. If the game goes on sale, grab it for a dreamy afternoon, but at full price, this is not worth the cost.
 

darrelRobin
1
315 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 37

Not Recommended
6.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
I've been anticipating this game for what feels like an eternity, and when I got the notification that it had finally released, I bought and played it within the hour. I wanted to love this game, but I can't in good conscience recommend it to anyone. Minor spoilers will follow.

Let's start with the pros:
- Great artwork (though some character portraits end up looking janky as hell)
- Diverse cast of characters (with non-binary people!)
- Fun dungeons and weapon mechanics
- Easy to understand interface

As for the cons, I'd rather go into them in more detail than put them in bulletpoints, because they're a lot more significant and impactful to this review than the pros. I'll section them off for ease of readability.

Lack of dungeons

For a game calling itself Boyfriend Dungeon, you get to play all of TWO (short) dungeons and a final confrontation with the game's "boss". If you were expecting a lengthy rogue-lite experience with dating sim mechanics on the side, you're going to be sorely disappointed. Hades this ain't. You barely get any time to even play with the mechanics that you unlock for each weapon because you clear the dungeons so damn fast. The only benefit to diving back in there is to quickly raise your weapon's love points to advance their storyline, which isn't a bad thing in and of itself, but there's absolutely no point in your more advanced abilities, especially considering you can mash your basic 1,2,3 combo to victory on each floor as long as you heal smartly. The game feels unfinished in this aspect, and I'd hope Kitfox will add some (free) DLC to rectify this in the future.

Inability to refuse dates

This is the big one. The game touts that being friends with people is just as great as romancing them, and gives off the impression that you can follow a friend route with each of the weapons if you so choose. I wasn't interested in a polya(r)morous playthrough but I was essentially forced into one for daring to explore each weapon's personal path. Mind you, I was choosing all the options that would logically lead you down a friendship path, such as refusing advances and straight up TELLING them that we were just friends. And yet, everyone but me seems to be under the impression that I, in fact, am currently dating the weapon that I explicitly rejected multiple times and simply asked for friendship. When that weapon eventually came by to break up with me, I sat there thoroughly confused as my entourage came to comfort me over the loss of this relationship, one that I had never consented to being in, in the first place. I felt extremely uncomfortable throughout the entirety of my playthrough, because no doesn't mean no in this game.

Your stalker

The game warns you at the beginning that there are references to stalking, essentially serving as a trigger warning for those who might be sensitive to the topic. What the game fails to mention is that it's not simply a reference to stalking, but an actual stalker. I'll applaud them for their excellent writing in this particular area, as I've never felt so deeply uncomfortable receiving fake texts from an imaginary person until now. The conclusion to this character's arc, however, is complete nonsense, and a slap in the face to victims of actual stalking and harassment. I won't get too deep into it, but let's just say that person gets little more than a slap on the wrist and absolutely no legal or moral repercussion for all of their sociopathic actions. Which leads me to...

The plot

Trash. Absolute trash. The game initially gave off a Persona 4/5 vibe, with you spending a summer abroad from your home to stay with/near a family member (your cousin), and your summer job involves exploring dunjs (dungeons) that manifest physical apparitions of your deepest fears. Cool, right? Why are these dungeons popping up? Who's responsible for these monsters? How deep do my deepest fears go? As it turns out, it's all pretty shallow. As stated before, you get to play two whole dungeons throughout the entire game, and a final confrontation that feels like it was supposed to be more of a challenge than it actually was. If you were expecting a grand mystery plot and a deep delve into your character's psyche through these fear-based apparitions, as I did, you're going to be sorely disappointed. All the plot amounts to is your character becoming slightly less awkward and more comfortable with intimacy, and you date some weapons too. That's it. No grand finale, no real plot hook, nada. I swear I wouldn't have even noticed if the game just had no plot at all. If anything, that might have made it better than this sorry attempt at a story.

"Surface level" is the best description I can give to this whole game. What you see is what you get, and what you get feels unfinished, bland, and downright disrespectful. Kitfox needs to add a buttload of free DLC to fix what they've pushed out if they ever hope to redeem their product, starting with giving the player the ability to say no. Add more dungeons and an actually compelling villain, and you'd have a decent game on your hands. As it stands now, your money is better spent on games that actually respect your time. Try Hades.
 

Zakov
159 products in account
6
238 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 34

Not Recommended
6.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
I normally avoid throwing my hat into the ring when commenting about games as there is generally a large discourse around them already, but since I backed Boyfriend Dungeon, I'd like to place down my two cents.

Currently the game does not have enough content to justify the price tag it comes attached with. I "finished" the game in around three and a half hours (there are only two "dunj"'s and a totally-not-slapping-you-in-the-face-obvious final boss fight), before doubling back to round out the rest of the romances and craft the remaining items I had missed. I think this game suffers from an identity crisis: it is effectively a combination of dungeon crawler and visual novel, but without doing either remotely well.

Gameplay in the dunj is, kindly put, bland. While each weapon does attack differently, at most you will be alternating LMB and RMB clicks (the game does list "combos" for each weapon, say LMB RMB RMB, but all this does is let you swap in to the RMB attack string from the LMB attack string. Only Sawyer and Rowan get different moves available to them by doing this, as their RMB attacks are standalone moves that do not chain unlike, well, every other weapon), dodge rolling, and occasionally shooting out whichever generic special move you've chosen from your collection of Zines--super powers in this game being determined by which 'zine' you have equipped and whose effects range from things such as breathing fire, summoning a decoy, or releasing a shock field. They're fine, but they're uninspired and don't contribute much to making the gameplay flow different or exciting.

Alright, so maybe the dungeon crawling is a little tacked on, maybe the characters make up for it, right? Well, no. Boyfriend Dungeon uses the trope that Everyone Really Likes You that crops up in romanceable character games occasionally. Your sharp heart throbs do have some potentially interesting issues: Recently coming out as non-binary (...but the fact they can't cook seemed to be a larger plot point than that.), how do you find love and connection when you've lived for 200 years already (something many of us will obviously go through), coping with depression (by falling in love obviously and not seeing a therapist).
On the flip side then you have things such as: rich attractive man disappoints his father by being philanthropic and "breaks away from him" but still seems to keep his expensive and cushy living arrangement...?

But all of the potential interest, the good work in offering you platonic relationships as being equally important and healthy as romantic ones, pales in comparison to how little your input matters. All of the characters like you, and often times not for any explainable or obvious reason. They just happen to think you're neat, so neat that they're happy to pash you. I think the potential with the setting of Boyfriend Dungeon remains largely untapped. What would it be like to actually wield another being? How would that impact your relationship with them; how would it grow that relationship? Is it comfortable or uncomfortable for the weapon-turner?

Alongside this, text messaging system which is used to continue conversations with your bae blades outside of your heart dates/events is inane, slow, and does its best to reduce any connection your might be building. How are you supposed to be seriously invested someone when they send you four multiple paragraph messages in a row to which your response options are a single sentence, a single word, or a series of emojis? Despite being eerily reminiscent of what online dating can be like, it makes the situation even more unbelieveable that these characters are often entirely delighted and content with your measly responses, an experience which is repeated on your in person dates. How am I supposed to care about a person whose response to me, not matter which option I select, is approval, love, or wonder?

What is heartbreaking about all of this though, is that Boyfriend Dungeon has style. To take a swipe at the low hanging fruit here: Boyfriend Dungeon is a good-looking bad date. It is well dressed, it sounds nice, it looks good, but when you talk to it you quickly realise that there's just... not much there. It is distressing when the only nice things you can say about a game are its art style, user interface, and music. It's like looking someone up and down before smiling and saying, "Your outfit is vibrant today."

I'm not sad to have helped in some small way to bring Boyfriend Dungeon to be a game in the world; respectful and representative queer content is still sadly sparse, especially non-erotic content, but I am sad that the experience is so flat. I find it interesting how much Moon Hunters (one of their earlier titles) and Boyfriend Dungeon have in common. They are both rich in setting, visual storytelling, and appearance. But they're also sparse, and kind of empty. Outside of the dunj, and being texted by five people at the same time for a date, there's just not much to do in Boyfriend Dungeon, so there's little for you to fall in love with.
 

Nocovaine
0
94 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
32.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 January, 2024
I'll be honest, I really, really wanted to like this game. I even backed it on Kickstarter because it looked so good and had so much promise. But when it came to actual gameplay, I was underwhelmed to say the least.

1. Romance
Although there are multiple romances in the game, and you can romance everyone at the same time, I never felt like any of them were all that deep. I didn't feel particularly emotionally invested in any of the characters, which is a shame because I liked almost all of them, and I think its because their routes, compared to other games, are fairly shallow They have some character building moments in them, I guess, but it wasn't much of a build-up to those moments compared to other games.

2. Dungeons
When it comes to the dungeons, I was also very disappointed. There's only three of them, and although I enjoyed actually fighting in them, they got repetitive and boring after a while, just turning into a grind to get LI's affection up. I had hoped there would be several more, but nope. Just those. Once you know what to expect, it's not much of a challenge either.

3. Plot
In terms of plot, it's sadly way too straightforward for my taste. You get to a point in the game where I hoped it would mean the intro of the actual Big Bad, which would mean new missions and plot, but nope. That was the end of it. It was severely underwhelming. And it didn't take too long to accomplish literally everything in the game, either. To get all the romances, all of the cosmetics, and defeat the dungeons really didn't take all that long for me. If I really wanted to, I could probably get it all done within a day or two.

All in all, if you're looking for a simple game that you can kill some time with and don't care too much about having deeper plots, you may enjoy this game. But if you're looking for a detailed plot, engaging romances, or even good combat, I would not recommend this game.
 

Yermog
1
118 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 27 August, 2021
I love both dating sims and dungeon crawlers. and as a woman, I've long found myself craving games with my tastes in mind that weren't JUST visual novels or farming sims. Boyfriend Dungeon looked promising, with it's hack and slash gameplay and unique premise. And I did admittedly have a bit of fun with it, so it's not a terrible game by any means. It also has good stuff going for it, such as it's inclusiveness and some thoughtful aspects of game design. However I found myself wanting more, and here's why:

The gameplay was incredibly basic. Other than just doing the basic love routes, there didn't feel like a whole lot in the way of customizing your characters' abilities. There were only 2 dungeons in the entire game. Not much in the way of exploration unless you're invited somewhere by another character.

I found a lot of the characters obnoxious, and as other reviewers mentioned, there's no way to say "no" to them, really. Shoutout to Isaac, Seven, and Sawyer for actually being tolerable. Certain characters will come onto you very hard, and there's not much you can do about it. There are also instances where your choices blatantly don't matter. For example, in Seven's route I mentioned disliking a Hellsing type show he was into, and he ended up giving me a poster of it for my birthday. There's no option to say you dislike this gift option either.

Also this is very much a "your mileage may vary" situation and I am aware of this, but while the art style was nice in the way of environments, and in-dungeon assets, the more realistic looking portraits for the characters felt a bit uncanny valley to me. The cutscenes used a much more pleasant to the eyes 2D animated style instead of pseudo-realism, and I wish the characters looked like this for the rest of the game.

Overall, this is not an awful game by any means, and if you are specifically looking for an inclusive date sim dungeon crawler this may be for you? but personally I felt a bit let down by this game and think it could have been better.
 

Tekki
2,068 products in account
0
344 people found this review helpful
33 people found this review funny 48

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
I... want to like this game, but I don't. I really, really don't. It doesn't have any ability to refuse dates, or turn people down, or set boundaries and then have them respected. I say I don't like dancing? Too bad, I must dance. I say something isn't a date? Too bad, everyone but me agrees that getting coffee with that guy was a date. I think my cousin's quest to make me have a date right now is kind of dumb, I'd really rather just chill and go slay monsters in dungeons? Too. Bad.

More than that, though, it genuinely made me uncomfortable in a way the warnings didn't prepare me for. At the start of the game there's a warning "This game may include references to unwanted advances, stalking, and other forms of emotional manipulation. Play with care." which sounds fine, but in actuality it is not 'references.' You, the player, acquire a stalker. He leaves a rose on your doorstep. He follows you when you go on dates to other people and comments on them through text message later. He keeps calling you pet names even though you ask him to please stop.

Stalking is horrible, and consent is important, and I can tell that this game understands that. Clearly a lot of thought went into it, because the interactions ring true. But I really feel like if you're going to confront something that strikes so close to home for a lot of people, you need to both warn them in advance better, and always directly show the difference between 'Okay' and 'Not okay.' Because having my stalker presented as messed up while I am incapable of refusing dates, or refusing to dance, or whatever else confuses the entire experience. I just feel trapped in every single interaction I'm having. The game will ask me for my preferences, and then completely ignore them.

And that's not the kind of game I want to play, and it's not the kind of game I'd recommend to anyone.
 

Aestrix
9
61 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
6.9 hrs on record
Posted: 20 September, 2021
I so so SO badly wanted to love this game.
I'd been waiting years for this game as a Kickstarter backer, and my hopes for this game were probably unfairly high due to the wait.
This game is by no means a terrible game--it's got some bright points: *cough*Seven*cough*, the dungeon gameplay was pretty fun, the animated scenes were so unique and well-done, and I love the inclusiveness and the dungeons being based off of the player's fears. Love love love.
But oof, the more dating sim-esque parts just fell flat on their face and never got back up again. Half of the characters were likeable enough (Seven, Sawyer, Pocket) but the other characters just didn't seem fully fleshed out. The dialogue was a bit awkward (though the voice acting was good, brownie points for getting ProZD) and the individual scenes between you and the characters were even more awkward.
Another thing is the game is PAINFULLY short. I finished it up in less than 8 hours and felt myself feeling confused and wanting much more. I know that the developers are putting out Leah and Jonah later on but unless they completely expand the world, gameplay, romance and character development, then I'm not sure I ever will be satisfied.
 

sharkbaet
0
44 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
7.0 hrs on record
Posted: 23 November, 2022
I really wanted to like this game, I truly did, but I just... didn't.
I love dating sims with wacky premises. I love dungeon crawlers with rogue-lite elements. I'm VERY gay.
But the writing in this game was just... not good. I didn't feel connected with any of the characters in any meaningful way. Most of them had a single one-note 'problem' that wasn't really explored in enough depth to make an impact on me.
The only one I liked even a little was Hato Moa's doing, and that just made me wish I was playing Hatoful Boyfriend again instead.
This is very much a personal taste thing, but all of these characters were too damn nice, and the only exceptions to that were: 1. a guy who stalks you. 2. the bisexual bad boy who only wants sex archetype. Neither of which do it for me. Robert from Dream Daddy did and subverted the latter with way better writing and more complexity. Where's my gay weirdos?

Aside from that, there's only two dungeons in a game that's supposed to be equally about dungeon crawling AND dating. Once your character gets even mildly powerful the dungeons are completely trivial and basically a repetitive chore you have to do to get more story content. Combat isn't particularly deep. Having to use weapons I hated just to see their dates was annoying. The art style in the Dungeons is also completely different from the rest of the game and not in a way I like - I'm not expecting mind-blowing hand animated 2D art, but I would like it to remind me less of goofy party games when the 2D art in the game is so gorgeous.

Yeah, the art's nice. Can definitely say that. Backgrounds are pretty, 2D animations are beautiful, portraits of the characters are visually lovely. But it absolutely cannot save this game from being a 'kind of okay in parts, wouldn't recommend'.

TL;DR: Just buy Hatoful Boyfriend if you want a dating sim with a wacky premise that has deep characters and emotional writing in it. Just buy Hades if you want a dungeon crawler where you also get to date. This is less than both.
 

Dullahan
75 products in account
0
107 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 17 December, 2021
I love this publisher - and last year I saw they were in progress for a dating sim I was excited! the kinda bombastic world of dating your weapons? neat! lets go!

Positives first
1. The art is very good. The game and animation is beautiful
2. The dungeons gameplay is fun! the levels are procedurally generated and combat is fun and changeling
3. the voice acting! The actors are clearly carrying a lot of the dialog

Now for why this game is really disappointing!

The story and dialog is painfully awkward. I really tried to like this game and have little fun with dating your weapons! - But it is impossible to get over the character dialog and writing. The character interactions straddle this very weird uncanny valley of hyper realistic dialog of red flags and dangerous behavior and utter caricatures of common dating sim love interests. Some character introductions are even so aggressive to the player character I would in reality never speak to these people again.

To give an example 

I don't want to go into each characters break down but each one is like someone took a common dating sim trope and created a whole plot about how that isn't actually a fun/sexy person to interact with. nothing like a game full of people that feel like life lessons.

now for the lesser negative points
1. The game is painfully short for $20 - there are only two dungeons and 6 levels/ dates with each love interest
2. While the reactions for friendship (yellow hearts) and love reactions (pink/red hearts) are clear I would like clearer dialog to follow friendship or love paths - some dialog options just 2 choices between unknown positive response vs negative response
3. If I were to change anything it would be - changing the dungeons to not reflect the PCs inner fears but reflecting the inner fears of the love interests so you could learn more about them - also then there would be at least one dungeon per love interest! rather than just the two
 

Lobster
3
55 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
These characters talk a good game about consent and communication, but the game doesn't care at all. Isaac thinks we're Together Forever and I have no idea what I did to make him think that; he definitely didn't ask me. The scythe asked me if I wanted to try sex/romance/sex+romance at like heart level 3, and that was apparently a binding contract I never got a chance to back out of that wasn't "be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥." Another character "broke up with" me and my only options are to be different flavours of sad+outraged, but I'd been looking for a way to tell this guy to chill and not been seeing any options that weren't "express disgust at his plotspoiler secret." Also, this character might have murdered or assaulted someone and I never get to care about this?!? But I got a lot of opportunities to tell the graffiti artist her ♥♥♥♥'s illegal, because I have Priorities, I guess.

The dungeon crawl part isn't long enough to fit the story, even if you don't "date" all the weapons. The two dungeons are really simplistic, more like a dungeon-crawling minigame. The weapons get more interesting as you level them up, but by that time you're out of dungeon to fight, so I'm not sure what the point of having more powerful weapons is.

Sawyer is so, so awkward. I don't mean "adorably awkward." I mean "it is deeply uncomfortable to play this storyline." This character is a literal child. They're an undergraduate and you teach them how to cook and they hero-worship you. It's gross. You shouldn't be this kid's romantic or sexual interest, and you shouldn't be their friend either. If you're young enough to be involved with this kid, most of the *other* characters should not be involved with *you*. If this is really supposed to represent a 20-something, well, big yikes. And *really* bad gender politics. AFAB trans people and nonbinary people get infantilized enough without being cast as "adults who are basically children."

The concept here is wacky and fun enough that I'd still have been happy with a simple game, or a game that looked like it could have been more but was ultimately scaled back to get it done. This is both of those things, but along with being unsatisfying, it's gross about consent in nearly every way it could be.

WARNING: the content warning at the beginning says something about how it "may" involve stalking. Your game WILL involve stalking. STALKING IS CENTRAL TO THE PLOT.
 

keyes
0
167 people found this review helpful
13 people found this review funny 25

Not Recommended
11.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 March, 2022
I want to start out by saying that I mostly enjoyed this game. The fights were fun, the music was enjoyable, and the blades were hot (as promised). But, I ultimately have to give it a thumbs down because of the way it handles the intense subject matter that drives the plot: stalking, unhealthy obsession, and abuse.

At first glance, Boyfriend Dungeon seems like a light-hearted summertime adventure where you track down a bladenapper and bond with a diverse cast of cuties along the way. Sure, it gives a content warning at the beginning of the game, but I made the assumption that even if it were a crucial component of the plot, it wouldn't be 95% of what drives it forward. I was wrong. 5% of is driven by the MC gaining dating experience. The other 95% is the stalker you are forced to interact with.

You have no way of protecting yourself from this man by blocking him or otherwise removing him from your life. You do not contact the authorities or a help line. Your friends and potential partners do little to remove you from the situation. You cannot not talk to him.

I naturally stopped replying to his texts because I didn't want to subject myself to that treatment any longer (obviously abusive from the start). Unfortunately, you are forced to put up with it for the entire game if you are to get anywhere. Worse, the game doesn't tell you this. It just assumes that you would actually consider this poison a viable romance option and continue talking with him of your own free will. In terms of educating people about the subject and providing some insights on how to navigate it, this is a failure. Especially for a dating sim - a game genre defined by the player's choice to interact or not interact with whomever they want.

The game attempts to show this villain as a hurt boi who just needs therapy so he can love himself enough to stop hurting others. I understand and want to appreciate the rejection of cancel culture but the villain has gone too far down a dark rabbit hole to fall back on self love as the solution now. He tries to kill people and creates a version of Frankenstein's monster from stolen body parts which he then abuses.

To conclude, I believe the game bit off more than it could chew with this theme and should have at least allowed the player more ways to progress the main plot or just removed the attempted teachable moment entirely and focused on what it does rather well:
+ Dungeoning (I would have enjoyed more dungeons),
+ Positive representation of nonbinary characters in an industry where there are precious few who are written well,
+ The development of multiple types of relationships (friendship/romance, monogamy/polyamory, casual/serious) with multiple outcomes.
 

iceflare177
0
46 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
Okay, here goes. While I love the Dungeon Crawl aspect of the game the dating sim side is severely lacking and in some cases kind of unsettling. Your choices are routinely ignored, the game plays you not the other way around. You have no way to refuse dates or to even stop your phone number from being passed out to complete strangers. Most romantic options are immediately flirtatious if not openly sexually aggressive to your person. There seems to be no option to be friends? Even though it's presented in the early dialogue as something you can do.

The warning of stalking at the beginning is incredibly misleading. You get stalked and harassed by said character almost immediately after being introduced to them, to the point that he leaves "gifts" at your doorstep (I've been told THIS ONLY GETS WORSE).

The game also assumes a lot about your sexuality. You go on dates regardless of whether your interested in the character or not in order to progress the story and they are "Aggressive" from the start more often than not. I waited a long time for this game and the sudden debut had me excited but that didn't last long. I found myself taking constant breaks even in the short time I played because of how uncomfortable I felt with some of the interactions. I hope some consideration is taken for this as I know I can't be the only one who feels this way. Until then, the mall is closed till further notice.
 

phoenixguardx4
0
45 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
13.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 May, 2022
I won't be the first person to say this, certainly. This game was mostly enjoyable in a lighthearted, fun way. I was at first pretty greatful that when I ignored my stalker, he juwt stopped contacting me. When I got to what should have been the end of the game, though, the plot had just stopped advancing. If you don't engage with your stalker, the plot doesn't move forward . That alone made me unhappy, but worse than that, the way to win the game is by playing therapist to your stalker. And that's why I wouldn't recommend it.
 

󰀁 trademark
727 products in account
0
31 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
21.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
tl;dr: It feels rushed.
When you start the game, it instantly charms you. There's so much to do! The visuals are pleasing, and they added some quality partial voice acting, to spice things up.
Unfortunately, you quickly run out of content to do, which is a sin for anything that attempts to call itself roguelike. The dating part doesn't fare much better.
There's only 2 dungeons for you to clear, and I managed to finish the crafting part of the game before even finishing the second one. That makes further re-runs pretty much pointless, from resource gathering perspective.
The only issue I've encountered in the first dungeon, is that it doesn't seem to know how to handle the player surviving part of the tutorial, where you're supposed to die. Second dungeon is more buggy than the first.
Once you reach max love level with one of the weapons, you get x2 boost for any love points you get with others, literally allowing you to speedrun the rest of this fairly short game.
The dating aspect is diminished in its charm by how Everyone Is Totally Into You. You don't have to do much, for the weapons to throw themselves at you.
While the possibility to pursue a platonic relationship is mentioned in the beginning of the game, if you do not choose "I want us to stay friends" as soon as it is presented to you, the game will proceed with understanding that you want a sexual relationship, with no option to back out of it.
Some of the platonic relationships can be awkward. I'm looking at you, Sunder.
And since I mentioned Sunder, spoilers for how his story ends: 
As for the game's ending, it's so heavily charged with combat, you may want to run it again, just to see what you missed the first time, by focusing on not dying, or maybe take another weapon with you... and the game doesn't let you redo the ending. Despite allowing you to continue playing after the ending, to deal whatever it is you didn't finish.
All in all, I expected more, back when I saw this game on Kickstarter.
 

Arkamos | Death Defiance
0
37 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 December, 2022
As a gay man, I have to personally say the general depth of both the gameplay and story is lacking.

The characters are shallow, come to love you far too quickly and seem to be based off of common stereotypes regarding the LGBT+ community in their general personalities (or lack thereof, more than not). In order to be sucked into a romantic visual novel, I am supposed to be tied to the characters and truly feel for them, to feel attached for them in an almost personal manner; I understand not all romance scenes can be written perfectly. Romance is one of the most complex spheres of human emotion, nearly impossible to perfectly capture. I must say, however, this game's absolute fumble of any romantic narrative is almost laughable. Despite having romanced most characters in the game come the end of my playthrough, I felt little to no out-of-game intrigue or attachment to them. If you have a game filled with musclebound gay guys, enbie people and conventionally attractive women and people are not talking about it or making art of it (sfw or otherwise) then you have truly fumbled the rainbow bag.

What little roguelike elements there are, and what little dungeon delving is present within the game causes the game to quickly become repetitive. I cannot actually believe that I was able to reach the game's end in 5 hours, in a single setting playing casually. I am by no means a 'skilled video gamer' but oh my god It's pretty laughable how fast it went by. I nearly fell asleep playing this.

Overall, since it is too late for me to refund, I'll just say that there are far better games out there that execute both queer romance and rogue-like elements far better than this game.
 

voth
0
27 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
5.1 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2024
Boyfriend Dungeon was, believe it or not, my most anticipated game of 2021. Moon Hunters, this studio's previous game, is one of my favorite games of all time, and it does so many unique things that I have still not seen recreated elsewhere, I was sure with such a juicy premise this game would surely turn into something worth playing.

It didn't.

Flatly put, this game is unfinished. It barely has enough content to qualify as a proof of concept, and corners are so cut in almost every area that it makes me feel like the studio did not appropriate their budget properly and suffered the backlash of having a successful kickstarter in terms of heightened expectations. The premise 'date your weapons' is great, but this game barely manages to deliver on that premise in the most basic way, and in some ways it's even offensively regressive from a mechanical standpoint.

Firstly, the weapon movesets are not complex; there is a light attack, a heavy attack, and sometimes a combination between the two, and that's it. There is a roll, but no stamina system, meaning everything is based on invisible micro-cooldowns. This is fine in practice for, say, maybe, a mini-game, or an action RPG made 20 years ago, but it's not fine for a modern *anything* to be this basic and monotonous in its combat in my opinion. This is exacerbated by the fact that the enemy designs in this game are non-existent; literal, real life objects like phones, staplers, and pencils form the entirety of the enemy cast. That was awful enemy design on the NES when Action 52 made us fight paperclips, and it is awful design here, no matter how you spin it. Instead of having interesting animations, designs, and movesets, I have a pencil firing dollar signs at me.

The dating aspect of the game is the most barebones expectation of a dating interface you could possibly expect; go on a date to level up your relationship, go to the dungeon to unlock your next date, give gifts to increase affection... what's offensive is that these systems aren't even implemented *well*. Unlike, say, Dreamscaper, another game in this genre that does the gift-giving thing, you can track and learn about people's preferences based on conversations with them. You can do that in Boyfriend Dungeon too, but you have to do it manually, and the choices are so obvious it's not even fun to intuit them. Hmm, I made a surfboard, I wonder if I should give that to the guy who's main thing is being a SURFER...

I could honestly rag on this game forever, and I don't want to. I wanted to love this game. I even had fun playing it, in parts, because for some reason when the game dumps 20+ enemies on screen the combat actually gets genuinely challenging, and because cute weapons are cute. But when I got to the wet fart of an excuse for an ending I just had to put the game down and write this review. It's depressing how, despite how easy it would be to 100% this game, I can't see myself doing so simply because of how boring it is.

Probably the most disappointing part of the game for me is the writing; Moon Hunters' writing went from okay to pretty good to cringey, but it was dealing with enormous and esoteric concepts. Boyfriend Dungeon is mostly dealing with the awkwardness of personal intimacy, and at no point during any interaction with a date did I feel like I'd made a genuine emotional connection with them. Everyone gets reduced to cliches, and there's barely any voice acting. The voice acting that is there feels stilted and out of place given how much bare text there is, and frequently voice or description lines will allude to or mention things having happened that didn't, or will fail to acknowledge important things the first time they occur. I didn't kiss one of my weapons the entire game, but when the ending came up, of course, they decided to kiss me, because of course that's what people want in an ending, except I didn't and wouldn't have consented to that and had never kissed them previously and yuck. And this whole game is just like that.

Compare this to something like Griftlands, which functions at a far greater level as a proof of concept merging between narrative and roguelike elements, and is a billion times more playable mechanically to boot. At the end of the day I don't know the real reasons why this game is such a disappointment, but I have a hard time not feeling personally aggrieved. I guess if this game has taught me anything, is that our love won't always be reciprocated, and that people we initially think are perfect may turn out to be just human.

Don't buy this game.
 

QED
799 products in account
0
51 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 11

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 15 April, 2022
This is a good game. I'm leaving a "negative" review to cover an edge case that I experienced. It is not a general review.

(Pun intended LOL. Spoilers follow)

A few comments on DEI things I noticed before I start talking about game design:
- First of all, I didn't feel that the treatment of the game's only Black female character was fair. Olivia deserves better.
- Similarly... more natural hair styles please!
- additionally, a hijabi is just supposed to get locked out of dungeon benefits because they can't wear headphones over the scarf? Seems like an overlooked opportunity.

Next, I wanted to follow up on another negative review I saw, regarding the game's treatment of stalking elements. [EDIT: Note, I finished the game and am updating accordingly]

Simply put, I, a trans adult in their thirties who has been stalked before, sniffed the dude out on date 1 and simply never replied to his texts. I didn't have the problem that other players talked about regarding feeling that there was nothing they could do to avoid Eric's advances: in the context of my game, he was a jerk who insulted my cousin, then occasionally showed up to my dates, was told to get wrecked, and disappeared.

The only problem with this is that I ended up in a situation where I couldn't advance the game in a natural way.

I originally wrote this review at the point of having beaten the two accessible dunj(e)s, max-ranked all my relationships and collected pretty much... everything. Because there were two dunj plushies on a shelf with spots for four plushes, it felt like I had been locked out of half of the game's content (i.e. that there should be another two big dunj(e)s to come, for which I would have leveled up way too much).

For those experiencing similar confusion, it turns out that this isn't the 50% point. Rather, there's nothing left but an easy final boss fight afterwards.

I went through the game to this point without responding to a single text from Eric, because it seemed like the natural way to progress based on decisions I would make IRL. It had done a fine job of advancing the narrative in all other contexts but I was very puzzled about what I was doing wrong. Then I finally realized that maybe what I needed to do to advance the narrative was talk to the stalker...

This, after having created a number of satisfying platonic, sexual, and romantic relationships with the rest of the cast, which means that from an in-game perspective, my behavior of talking to Eric doesn't make a whole lotta sense. Even less sense than it did on Date One.

In summary, the effects are:
- Time stopped because I was accidentally too effective at shutting out the stalker.
- I keep getting comments from my dates about a "Katana" that don't make any sense. What Katana?
-> Following up on the previous point, there is no encouragement in the game whatsoever that makes talking to Eric seem like a good idea. Talking to him doesn't align with my goals of dating swordboys and dunjing.
-> There are no other dates held at his shop or "unmissables" like outfits or gifts at his place.
-> So why would I be expected to do the counterintuitive thing of handing myself over to him?!

- There was another time-honored way to handle this, namely the tradition of the Good vs True end.
-> It seems unfair to punish the player for exerting healthy boundaries, but I would have been willing to take the options of "have a good summer but the problems aren't totally resolved because you refused to act" vs "willingly engage with the stalker if I knew that was what I needed to do in order to protect my friends."


I can appreciate the devs' desired themes of "confronting your fears" and "meeting your enemies with love." In that sense, to progress the game I was required to do the frightening act of confronting my fears of "change" and "intimacy."

Still, consider the younger player, possibly one without supportive adults to talk this over with IRL and trying to learn from the game: is a "fear of intimacy" the BEST description of being unwilling to engage with someone trying to abuse you?

As an explicit note, if anyone somehow has not gotten this point by now: young people, if you experience a situation like this IRL, you don't have to keep engaging with people who demean your friends and family and run all over your "in order to be nice" or "in order to develop yourself as a person" or "because they will be sad if you don't talk to them."

Relationships are not about control, and you do not have to allow yourself to be controlled in order to enjoy the fruits of intimacy. You might meet lots of people like Eric in real life but usually the problem will be resolved by calmly stating your needs or getting an authority figure (like a mutual acquaintance they respect) to help state your boundary as part of disengaging.

There is no need to rescue everyone who appears on your doorstep. When problems are made by many people working together, they are usually resolved by many people working together, too.


Couple more notes to close out:

- The game does not need to be perfect in order to be worthy. It makes real advances on what we had before.

(and it's fun).

- Looking forward to the DLC and continuing to support the devs. The game has flaws to be sure but in its best moments it reminded me of a cut-down Supergiant games title, like Dream Daddy avec eau de Transistor.
- ... and we get to be trans.
- WE GET TO BE TRANS!

Not all awesome queer games are going to be made by out queers. But being out 'n proud has its perils and costs. Fellow olds, if you can afford it and want to try the game, please purchase it at full price to let the devs know that the market is here and we want more.
 

La Tramontana
0
26 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
15.2 hrs on record
Posted: 6 October, 2021
I have mixed feelings, but I don't have such an option on Steam.
tl;dr: dungeon crawler part - good. Otome part and plot - bad. Game short.
Contains spoilers. It will be long.
On the one hand, we have a decent dungeon crawler. Its strongest sides are for sure creativity with both ideas about enemies (as a manifests of player's fears) and about weapons (gameplay-wise, they feel original and I absolutely loved the idea of gravity skills on a scythe). It isn't difficult, so it is accessible for everyone - better player's will just progress faster and there is no skill-wall for the rest. The painful thing is that everything is short and can get pretty boring when you have only 2 dungeons for the entire game, but I will return to that point later. For me, this part was at least nice overall.
And then came the otome part of the game... And its plot. I will divide this part on 2 sections: Rowan’s route case study (cause they are the only character I had a romantic relation with) and overall plot.
Otome part feels just rushed. It doesn't give you a time to get used to a romance/friendship option; to spend time casually; to wait a bit with opening. We have only 6 meetings per character, so the writers had to pack a relation into these 6 meetings. And it was a tiny, tiny box. Valerie's route has the best pacing, I think, but for 1 Valerie we have 6 other characters, like Rowan. Then it turns out we know almost nothing about past of these characters, about their memories, dreams, favorite places – things lovers and friends should have an idea about.
About Rowan’s route: its pacing is totally wild.
First meeting: I want to kill you.
Second meeting: I’m sorry I wanted to kill you.
Third meeting: Eric is stupid.
Forth meeting: Oh no, Crowley is gone, help.
Fifth meeting: We will medidate. And, btw, I don’t want to date you, cause I will lose you just like I lost my grandmother. (what was their relationship with their grandmother even? All we know is that she was named Alice and was a witch!)
And in the end they decide to stay with the relationship, because they met their grandmother… It doesn’t feel right. How about their feelings? Their own development as a character and growth as a person? About overcoming their own fear of intimacy, because they love player’s character more than they are afraid of losing someone once more?
Also, Seven’s route has the same problem as Rowan’s route – a serious problem gets intoduced and just passes by with a divine touch of player’s character. Grief and depression aren’t things that can be easily overcome. Portraing them like that is simply wrong and misleading.
Overall plot… It was just shallow. We have The Villain TM, who is So Evil! The game just shows Eric from the worst side all the time and it is boring: he dislikes cats, he wants to buy cheaply blades from Rowan, he is racist and most of the time will speak about it. Also, he exists to show how cool our love interests/friends are. It feels like a story written by a middle school girl, where a plastic barbie is a must-have villain. Eric’s motivations also aren’t explained well, we don’t have any reason to understand him or feel for him.
Shortness of the game: it has around 10-15 hours of gameplay (I am not a dungeon crawler expert and I finished it with 96% achievements, so I suppose it is a normal time), which may be a reason why writing is so rushed. The writers may have interesting, complex stories in mind, but without enough time to expose them correctly… well, it hasto end up like that.
A special mention: soundtrack! It was modern, fresh and it fits well to the game.
In the end, the dungeon crawling part manages well, but is pulled down by the plot.
 

NubilaCaeli
329 products in account
0
25 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
6.8 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
I want, so badly to give this game a positive review. I love the character writing, the diversity, the soundtrack. And for the first few hours I was super invested. The combat was simple, but in a good way. Closer to Bastion than Hades. But once you start progressing a bit in the story things get weird.

I think they ran out of money. There are so many plot hooks, characters, etc that just are never utilized and the game stops short. There are only 2 dungeons, and maybe you were supposed to die more often than I did but I finished both of them in about 5 runs total. Then I went and did some grinding to actually get the relationships I cared about leveled up, then finished the main boss and that was it. I did not get to use the final abilities on any of my weapons, because once I maxed them I had no reason to use them apart from the final boss where a lot of the abilities don't work anyways.

During the final 2 hours everything just sort of fell apart, and the game went from one of my favorite games i've played this year to a negative review during that time. There has to have been more content planned. Your room has a shelf for displaying trophies you get from the dungeons, and it looks like there should be 4 slots but only 2 are ever used.

The character introduction for Rowan is also strange and imo contributes to this theory. They're the only person besides the tutorial weapon that you don't find in the dungeon, and there is some pretty contrived reasons why you even talk to them. BUT, during the final boss, something happened that would have only be possible if Rowan was found in the dungeon with parts missing like every other weapon in the game was. Unless it was just a plothole that the writers didn't think about, the other option would be that Rowan was supposed to be found in a later dungeon that got cut.

I truly think this game is unfinished, and that they should have called it early access and just had it stop rather than trying this lackluster ending. Which, speaking of, was borderline insulting.

SPOILERS FOR ENDING

Throughout the game you have a stalker. He is actually pretty well written, I felt my character's fear whenever a text from him popped up. When you first meet him he says some vaguely racist/incel type ♥♥♥♥ and just gives awful vibes. You realize partway through the story that he is the one responsible for kidnapping the 5 weapons that were unconscious in the dungeon and broken. He stole body parts from them and combined them to make a frankenstien's monster type creature, a living abomination that only wants to kill the main character. You finally take this thing down, and all you do is give him a slap on the wrist and tell him to go to therapy. No police involvement for his numerous kidnappings and assaults, no catharsis of having the main characters yell at him, you just have to be a good noodle and let him walk off with the promise that he'll try to make himself better. It feels like every single other character downplayed what he did, and you were forced to as well.

And as someone who has gone through a similar experience irl and had the same reaction from everyone around me, I give a genuine ♥♥♥♥ you to the writers. This is more actively harmful than any of the over the top fantasy-based ♥♥♥♥ he pulled. Because where his crimes were exaggerated for the story, the group dynamic of forced forgiveness ♥♥♥♥ is really happening and what enables abusers to get away with things.
 

AbstractVoid
451 products in account
0
36 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 25 January, 2023
Played entirely on Nintendo Switch.
Although I really liked the concept, the characters were all pretty simple, and the gameplay loop wasn't really entertaining. From the beginning to the end, it felt completely underwhelming.
 

Gàlaron
0
17 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
56.3 hrs on record
Posted: 30 December, 2022
I came into this game as an otome game player, but there's no much romance in this game. Every love interest seems to fall swiftly in love and often they would reference dates that I didn't even know we'd been on together (I just thought we were meeting for the first time, not already dating). You can date as many people as you want at the same time, which is fine, but all the love interests talk about it all the time so that's a little strange if you're into monogamy. I thought the concept of the dungeons and conquering your fears was a cool element, but as far as game play I played the entire game by spamming the hard attack. This is a fine short game if you get it on sale, but I wouldn't recommend it if you're looking romance, story, or game play. You can date a cat, though!
 

SarcasmFish
0
30 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
5.0 hrs on record
Posted: 22 April, 2024
I can't get over how uncomfortable some of the characters are. It seems like the devs romanticize stalking, and not accepting a no when it comes to boundaries.
Yes, some characters are nice enough, but they don't seem fleshed out; they seem like stereotypes with stereotypical issues.
The combat portion is meh, not anything interesting really. It's nice that you have quite a few weapons to choose from, but if you like a weapon; you are forced to go on dates with someone you dislike to level up said weapon.

I came for a roguelike game, with some dating sim elements, as I'm a fan of both, but am disappointed by both aspects of the game.

I like the overarching idea that fighting in dungeons is related to fighting your inner feelings and fears, but it's just not enough to keep me engaged in the story they are trying to tell.

I would say pass on this one. There are far better roguelikes AND visual novels/dating sims.
 

Maddi
103 products in account
0
67 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
37.9 hrs on record
Posted: 11 August, 2021
The game advertises a wide cast of characters, but upon starting you're forced into going on dates with select options. You are literally not allowed to decline these dates, the game does not let you. So you have to date characters you probably have no interest in just to unlock the rest of the cast. The point of a dating sim is to give the player choices and let them pick the one they want, not to railroad them into dating your favourites and leaving the rest as extras to be unlocked later.


Edit: Upon playing more of the game, I do like the other options a lot. I wound find the game a lot better if I could decline dates and had more options upon starting. Maybe give us the whole cast at the beginning, but whoever you don't pick is then lost temporarily so you only start with 1 weapon but it's a weapon of your choice. My opinion of the game has improved since the first review, mostly because of Sawyer, but I'd still say it's got a lot of work to do to improve.

Extra edit: Just wanted to note this was the first ever negative review of Boyfriend Dungeon on Steam so let it be forever known that I was the first person to dislike this game :^)
 

Yearbook Monarch
443 products in account
0
32 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
This isn’t a complete do not recommend but more YMMV.

Overall it’s a well thought out game with a good idea but I didn’t find myself enjoying it and wanted it to be over more than I wanted to keep trying to make it work for me.

Combat:
Felt to weightless and I didn’t feel like attacks or even dodging had any impact to it. That made a little difficult to get into the zone when in combat.

I ended up prioritising who could get me through the dungeon and mobs the fastest rather than trying to get more use to the combat. Which doesn't sound bad, but I wasn't enjoying the encounters at all. The enemies are not particularly difficult but since combat didn't feel good it wasn't fun to play.

I also forgot about the books half the time and rarely used them in combat until I was panic button mashing in a challenge room.

Dating:
Everyone seemed pushy/forward from minute 0. Other dating games start out with your candidates being more neutral toward you and it gets built up to romance or friendship route. But since everyone in this game, including your mom, starts out on a mission to get you dating all interactions = romance?

Even the dialogue options that seemed more friendship (or flat out rejection) get you romance responses.

At least for the first 3 (4?? If stalker lad is an option) I wish stuff started more casual. The dates and interactions feel forced, even more so when I choose “this is not a date” options. It felt like working in reverse, instead of building up a relationship to romance I’ve got to convince them I just want to be friends.

But I also was not a fan of the first available candidates. I ended up wanting to be their friends instead. A lot of their dialogue ignored my attempts at “let’s just be friends”….but that’s also probably because those options mostly trigger more pink/red hearts and rarely the yellow ones. That made it difficult to enjoy since I was trying to reject/neutral them and they stayed flirty at every turn.

Even though I was interested in finding out about the other available candidates, I couldn’t stand the interactions with the first 3 and dreaded any dates. Dates are required for weapon level progression so I couldn't get away from them if I wanted. I was annoyed through most of my short playthrough and didn't want to keep going to meet the other candidates or unravel the story.

Also, as nice as the game is to give you a warning about some aggressive interactions (à la stalker lad) his interactions and any extended dialogue with him is stressful and tanked the game experience for me by a lot. You may want to watch an LP or play with a friend first to get a good feel if you’ll be comfortable having to interact with this guy. Especially since he is also one of the shop owners. Though his shop dialogue is neutral-ish and (so far) you can get what he sells via dungeon grind instead.


Other:
- I kinda wish there was a day/night cycle. As far as I know you only sleep once and from then on it’s just go out into the overworld whenever you want and hit up shops or dungeon. I think it would help the pacing for when you go on dates. Especially when the dialogue is see you tomorrow or this evening, but it doesn’t match up with when you can go do activities. But characters will text you when a location is available to visit for an activity, most of the time the unlock is instant.

- Navigating the overworld with your avatar seems unnecessary? Personally just cycling through buildings with a list or bright outlining the location you want to go would be just fine and simpler.

- Too many text. I was getting overwhelmed with how much the characters text you. Going home I just wanted to see what I could craft or try on new clothes but the text were so much. There was a little downtime to not text but it just felt like a lot happening and waiting for them to finishing typing to see if you can respond or not.

I don’t know if I could have just left people on read or if they’d continue to text you if you were in the overworld or dungeon. If there was a better or easier way to manage the text I didn’t see it.

- I needed an option for everyone to just say dungeon. Every time I saw or heard “Dunj” was a cringer.
 

Casual Papaya
0
24 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
10.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
I want to start this out with my general opinion on the game:
It's fun for a short night long play through, but lacks a lot of player agency and depth that I'd expect from this kind of game. If you're looking for a small self contained experience and nothing more, it's well worth the price tag, but the game itself left me feeling both sad and unfulfilled.

For how beautiful the art is and how cool the concept may be I find it really depressing that nothing you say matters. You try to say no to someone? Ignored. I told several characters I'd prefer to be friends and yet the game FORCES you to continue going on romantic dates with them and flirting. The game lectures YOU the player about consent and then ignores your own consent later into the game. Maybe, you might think, you can just romance one person and ignore everyone else? Nope, you HAVE to romance everyone at least once for the story to continue. Your dialogue choices don't matter, your dating choices don't matter, nothing matters. It's an illusion of choice.

And this goes for the ending too; this is going to dip into SPOILER territory so beware.
You have no impact on your relationships or the world around you, forced to follow the story directly. Either you ignore a character or you pursue them, there is no in between.

This kind of spamming issue happens in the dungeons as well, the weapons all follow a basic combo of clicking that lacks a lot of variety. I didn't mind this as much myself but I know some people may find the basic nature of the combat and how easy it is boring after awhile. Doubly so since this game doesn't have difficulty changing options.

To any looking to buy this game, I think it is very worth it if you're going to play it with friends, or if you want to appreciate the beautiful art/soundtrack this game has to offer. Otherwise, I would hold off to buy it when the game has more DLC or additional content to offer like more dungeons or female romance options (since there's only one as of right now.)
 

sluggurt
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 24 December, 2021
I wanted to like this game but the story is quite short and dungeon gameplay is repetitive and not particularly challenging. It had an interesting premise but I feel like there should be more content for its price.
 

grapeshot
159 products in account
0
24 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 24 July, 2022
Im not sure what it was, but there's something in the writing that felt completely off, and just turned me off from the game. Every character seems to be at the same time dissinterested and overly familiar with you. Sure its a dating sim and its expected for every character to be at least somewhat wanting to go out with you and such, but they seem interested practically immediatly, calling for a date. Theres no build up, the game asks you to go out with them without them having done anything to establish their character, or even why they'd be interested in maintaining contact with you. It felt like these characters expected the first step of any relationship to be a "date" even when the characters themselves didnt feel like it. Idk it rubbed me the wrong way. (Also it doesnt help that youre the blankest slate possible, theres 0 pre-game backstory established, and nothing is mentioned about the player character being different in any way from anyone else. 'Why are all these people interested in me?!?' vibes)

As for the rest of the game its... fine? Really nothing special. Simple and fun enough action game, but I was kinda dissapointed.
 

Merouses
152 products in account
0
20 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
Product refunded

Yikes. I know it's indie, but for ~20 USD I would not recommend. Maybe a 5 dollar game? But even then that's pushing it.

If you're going to have a text based game like this, at least hire some good writers. All of the choices you get are 75% equivalent to to each other. Meaning there's literally no way for you to say "No" and have them accept it. You end up playing in a bad fanfic where you yourself can't choose your personality having to go through 2 brain-dead Dungeons. I only played far enough to befriend the cat, and I couldn't find the strength to dredge through. I was excited to see this years ago at PAX, but I'm disappointed in the outcome.

For a game that STARTS out saying stuff about "It's okay to be friends". None of the characters actually respect those wishes. Can I just be in a mono relationship with one guy? No, they force you to be in relationships with all sexes, even non-binary. I like the inclusion, but being inclusive doesn't mean I have to date all of them.

TLDR: It's bad fanfic written by someone really wanting love just thrown at them with no work.
 

Treble
0
20 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
I was really excited about this one, and while it looks slick, and everyone is beautiful, of course--even with limited time with it, it just feels pretty empty. The characters have no real 'hooks' to them, everyone is a slightly different flavor of smarm and/or already in love with you, and for all that there seems to be a sweet core to the interactions, it already veered into preachy from your very first interaction, maybe for fear of being labelled problematic (a common problem for LGBT+ VNs in my experience, as the call often comes from inside the house these days to rip LGBT stories to shreds for daring to have anything short of squeaky-clean Disney romances with perfectly upstanding model citizens as characters). With no risks, and pretty characters with no substance, it just feels like unprofessional writing with a nice package.

Also the dungeon-crawling controls are extremely bad. They're too slow to respond, even for a mini-game, and as it is the 'main' mini-game, it seems like it should be more polished! The enemies are boring, the dodging is not reliable, and I had no fun at all.

Gonna pass on the rest of this one. Sorry, guys. The idea is still so good, but the execution didn't hit for me from the get-go.
 

shadesource
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.8 hrs on record
Posted: 25 August, 2021
I want to love this game, I really do. The premise is gold, the graphics and music are great, and the first half of the game is a lot of fun. Then it just suddenly falls off a cliff when the content abruptly runs out and everything finishes before it even gets started.

This game just feels like it's only half done; there are only two dungeons, and the romances are only six dates long, meaning each character's whole storyline is crammed into six scenes. The romances don't feel even remotely realistic because you leap from not knowing them to being madly in love in what feels like seconds.

It's just too short to feel anything other than slap-dash, and when I finished the second dungeon and realised the game just suddenly ended it felt so unsatisfying. No to mention my main squeeze dumped me, and no matter which character you pursue the story forces you to leave them anyway, so it all just combined to leave me wondering why I bothered to play.

I really can't recommend this game in its current state; it needed more time in the oven. I wouldn't suggest buying this unless it's on steep sale, or the devs add more dungeons and content to lengthen the romances.
 

MalAddict
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 8 February
Normally I don't write reviews but I feel like I had to for this game after sitting on this for a while.

I bought this game on sale thinking that it would be a win-win scenario since I like both dating sims and roguelike games.
However, my experience turned out to be not as favourable as I thought it would be.

Visual Novel/ Dating Sim aspect
Pretty basic format of receiving texts from characters, meeting them in town and upping their affection through using their weapons in dungeons. No problems there.

The plot is pretty basic but I will be honest in saying that the climax felt extremely lacklustre in comparison to what it felt like they were building up to. The potential was there but I found myself getting disappointed and trying to hold it together in the final fight I just wanted to finish the game.

I tried really hard to like the characters. I really did but I found that some of the dialogue felt unnatural and some of the characters felt pretty shallow. So, I didn't really find myself getting attached to any of the characters and just went for whoever was easiest to use in the dungeons. The endings didn't really help either. I'm aware because of the setting, there really wasn't a lot of room for something of a deeper relationship but the endings either had me feeling empty or that it was all a waste of time. Not in a sense that I wish I didn't play the game but I felt bad that I had put all this time into getting to try to know these people only for me to basically just kind of dust off my hands and be like 'whelp that was fun!'

Gameplay
It took a bit to get used to. Especially with the heavier weapons which I did't really end up liking no matter how much I tried to force myself to use them.

I didn't hate the combat but it got really repetitive in a way that didn't have me looking forward to playing dungeons even though I needed to. I found myself wanting to rush through dungeons rather than taking a more reasonable pace like I had done in the beginning.

I'm not sure if I could give a proper number rating but this game left me feeling really empty and just wondering what could have been.
 

SapphireNightmare
0
37 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
8.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2023
All of these choices, all of this grinding, all of this inclusivity...

For nothing to happen in the end. Never been so underwhelmed w/ a dating sim before.
 

Vaveyla
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
This game could have been fun, but it seems very rushed. Only two dungeons total and a bad endgame make this a skip for now. If there are updates later that flesh this out, I'm willing to amend.
 

Jen Angst
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2021
The game itself is okay and mildly entertaining. If you really REALLY wanted a combination dating sim/roguelike that this works. But tbh although it does both genres, it doesn't really do either of them very well. The combat is insanely simple not challenging, and the dating aspect doesn't go much further than just giving gifts and pick dialogue choices, most of which have absolutely no impact on how the game actually plays.
I played for 8 hours and have no intention of ever playing again, so if you think 8 hours of entertainment is worth the price tag, go for it. I didn't hate the game, just wasn't terribly impressed by it. Pick it up on sale to kill a few hours or if you're a huge fan of dating sims and dungeon crawlers.
 

Frodus
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 23 March, 2024
This game is solidly just okay and, if it had a better ending, I'd consider leaving a positive review. But the ending is just mind mindbogglingly dumb. So here we are.

Spoilers below if you want to play this game:
You're in a different town for the summer, crawling dungeons and going on dates. Awesome concept. People turn into weapons and, as you level up your relationship, the weapon abilities get better. Cool, awesome. A little annoying if you don't like the place style for a certain romantic interest, but manageable. The problem lies with the antagonist of the story.

The first date you go on is with a guy who can't turn into a weapon. He's a human elitist who believes people are superior to weapon people. He gets really possessive over the one date you went on and starts stalking you on other dates. We later find out that he not only stalked you, gossiped about your family, and was just generally a creep, BUT he also kidnapped most of your love interests! He got turned down for dates with all of them, attacked them, and left them hidden in dungeons for several weeks. And instead of the police getting called the game ends with him promising to go to therapy. It's hilariously bad.

P.S. please for the love of God stop putting in achievements for minigames that control nothing like the actual game. I hated that racing game so freaking much.
 

pixistix236
138 products in account
1
16 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
I want to point out that this game has a great idea and there is some stuff that I liked. However, I just felt so disappointed by how shallow it feels. It wants to be both a dungeon crawler as well as a dating sim but the game feels like it isn't good enough to excel in either of these genres. I really hate saying what I'm about to say because I BADLY wanted to like this game.

In terms of writing, it seems like a lot of it is missing and a lot of the character development feels rushed. It is technically possible to be friends with your possible love interests but the game still treats it as a date and everyone acts like it's a date. They still act romantically towards you as if you didn't say "let's just be friends." That's not to say the really bad taste it left in my mouth because they introduced Sunder as one of the first weapons you get. He's basically a really gross womanizer that doesn't respect your space and those types of people tend to turn me off. If other weapons like Sawyer or Rowan were introduced earlier, it would have been better.

In terms of dungeon crawling, there is much left to be desired. The combat feels incredibly shallow. There is a variety of weapons but very little enemy variety. Plus, there are only two dungeons. This makes me think that there was supposed to be more but a lot of it is missing. Valeria is actually pretty unbalanced because you can dodge to confuse enemies and you also get a perk that lets you crit enemies that are confused. This is also a bit of a nitpick but in the second dungeon, enemies can do a lot of damage and you can get swarmed really easily by the smaller enemies. If you get trapped, there isn't a whole lot you can do since you can't boost stats with armor like most games and you can't grind for anything other than health. You do get perks in hats though but most of them are unhelpful.

Overall, I felt really disappointed by the game since it had potential to be something great but falls short in so many areas. It's especially disappointing when non binary representation is practically nonexistent. I think it could have been much worse considering that I was there when the Elite Dangerous Odyssey expansion and...well...it was something. I still don't know if I can recommend this game and that makes me really sad. :(
 

ripleysamus
0
21 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 29 November, 2024
I got this game as part of a bundle from Humble Bundle. This game should be great for me - I love Hades, Hades 2, I love visual novels and the artstyle is really up my alley.

I dislike this game in many ways, however, and it’s rather disappointing.

The game has people who can turn into weapons and you use them in the other part of the game (the roguelite) to go through a dungeon.

First I’ll cover the VN side of things, but I’ll preface this saying this game is just super not for me. I am the target audience, yes, but this game is also super not for me due to the stalking and the almost uncomfortable desperation that some of the characters ooze with.

The game does start with a warning that it includes themes of stalking and I think this is the first game I’ve seen that actually EARNS that trigger warning, it is just too much for me. You get a rich fund baby that has a bad relationship with his father who is, honestly, just an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ and it made me dislike the character since I didn’t care for that plot, some kind of… jigolo guy who has red flags glued to his body, a weirdly racist stalker weapon seller that your cousin straight up says ‘oh he’s just lonely’ bro he can be lonely somewhere else, some chick that I kind of forgot what she was about other than talking about stealing a painting from a museum and a surfer guy who got fired for turning into an axe at work (wouldn’t it be like pulling a gun out at work, WHY ARE YOU SURPRISED YOU GOT FIRED I am so beyond confused what are the rules of this universe). (there are more, but I quit before I got to them).

It also was very hard to grasp the tone? Is this game supposed to be jokey or is it dealing with topics of stalking and insanity? These people turning into weapons ‘walking’ off had me hollering, like what is the sword ‘walking’ off on. Is there a sword with legs??? I am very confused on the tone here.

Now the real critique, because all that above is honesty subjective - I freely admit someone may find the cast endearing, in particular if they subscribe to the ‘I can fix him’ stuff.

The gameplay: Really bad, clunky and feels like a knock off of many better games and lacks something that would really make it special.

I was wondering why the gameplay feels so bad, and I realized it eventually - it’s the controls. They feel lacking. You often swing in the direction you didn’t mean to (it might be just a problem with targeting on the controller. There’s also a big issue that really drags the game down - your dodge cannot get through enemies. It means that you can get swarmed by enemies against a wall or a pit you can't fall into. It's just clunky too - aiming your weapon in the right direction feels wrong somehow. Everything just feels like it should work, but doesn’t. The dungeon, or dunji as the game calls it, is a mall with very meh visual side, very low enemy variety and extremely boring gameplay. The enemies just have too much health. The difficulty in lower floors comes from those enemies having bigger health bars. It was getting easier purely due to having more health and the weapon getting stronger as you go through the uh… romance, let’s call it. But it was not getting more FUN.

It’s a shame. Visually the game is great, the little transformation animations are pretty cool and the voice acting is pretty ok as well. It’s the gameplay that really let the game down. Gameplay should at the very least not drag down the experience, and here that gameplay IS required to progress. And so, I just can’t recommend it.




 

Silvi the Bun
0
13 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2023
Boyfriend Dungeon is a dating sim with dungeon exploration gameplay similar to Hades. Despite coming into this game with a pretty open mind, I left feeling like Boyfriend Dungeon was a little below average.

Story and Characters:
The story to Boyfriend Dungeon is pretty simple and not memorable. An awkward protagonist comes to Varona Beach for a summer getaway and becomes friends - or lovers - with people that can turn into weaponry. There's a little more to the story, so it's an inspired premise, but a lackluster execution - the overarching story just was not that interesting to me. Boyfriend Dungeon's bachelors, bachelorettes, and one cat are very much meant to be the actual stars of the show. There's a good variety of characters, but I didn't come out of this game with a character that I very much liked. Maybe it had something to do with the lackluster voice acting, or the character arcs that just didn't resonate with me, or me being a straight dude, but I wasn't enthralled.

Gameplay:
Boyfriend Dungeon's dungeon crawling gameplay is basically Hades without the significant playtesting. There are numerous poor design decisions made that makes playing the game frustrating, like enemies being able to hit you the moment they spawn in, enemies being able to shoot down hallways at you before you see them, and the most unrewarding dodge rolls I've ever felt in a game. Later, when you've finally unlocked significant upgrades for your weapons and leveled up, you can just button mash through everything later on, often ignoring the problems rather than playing around them. Even then you may fall victim to glitches, like how I got knocked out of a boss's arena and had to restart the fight because I couldn't claim my rewards. Boyfriend Dungeon is not getting a gold star for its gameplay.

In the end, I played through all of Boyfriend Dungeon, and while the game wasn't entirely unpleasant, I find it very hard to recommend this game unless you're desperately into dungeon crawlers or very curious into the characters that are gonna be thrown at you.
 

Divalti
1,981 products in account
0
24 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 May, 2022
tldr; isn't not worth the price. This game just doesn't have the amount of content is should for the price. It is rare that a dating-sim by an indie team even skirts the $20 mark and it's worth it, and this is not an exception. If you still want it, buy it on sale.

There was controversy around this game that can't be missed, if you look up anything about it, the reviews will often focus more on its stalker antagonist and the demand for the developer to remove him and really say nothing about the game itself. Defenders compare this game with Persona 5 and the lack of backlash when it had sexual assault and suicide pretty early in the game. "Why this game and not that one? People are just being too sensitive, if you don't want to heed the content warnings, you cant be surprised if you're triggered. We are holding indie developers to a different standard than AAA games."

But that's not the reason I gave it a 'no' recommendation. The plot barely exists after the first hour, other than text messages he sends that you can just ignore and the very end, you move on to date the other people in the game. I wouldn't buy it because it is boring, the relationships shallow, the combat is bleh, and... well, I finished a game with 6 romantic routes in 11 hours that cost $20 and that in itself is a good indication of a lack of content for the cost.

The "story" of the game is the relationships. Getting through their relationships is how you advance the plot. I tried to keep everyone at the same level so that I could have the plot line up correctly but, that doesn't exactly work well. At the end of the day, the pacing is weird because of this mechanic, and needing to go into the dunj to advance the relationships was a cute idea but ultimately ended up being tedious since... well, play hades. Play children of morta. Just, try another rougelite and it'll make sense. The battle mechanics are just not there, not nuanced, not reactive enough for a satisfying rougelite, especially if you are actually into rouge games. This version is a baby version. It seems to be designed for people who don't play games like this.

The love interests... Everyone has their flaws and in general... well, all of them are pretty one note characters that end up being boring and reductive of the "representation" they are supposed to highlight. Sawyer being the worst, you play babysitter to an adult with the mental capacity of a child, and oh yeah, dont you want to bang them? Rowan is best bae hands down, with the story that has the best handling even while taking on heavy subjects (grief) and a satisfying conclusion. Seven is a fanfiction version of SUGA from BTS whose entire personality is "depressed". Sunder doesn't have an actual platonic route when despite telling him you're just friends he breaks up with you and your character gets messed up about it? Valeria invites, and then justifies her weirdo ex intimidating you and you're supposed to be friends in the end with no real reason to even try. Issac is a wealthy religious black man and wants to give money to charity and invest in starts up, but his father won't hear it - even tho wealthy people use charities as tax write offs irl. The ends of each relationship escalate into ridiculous hi-jinx that are more frustrating than funny, and sometimes disrespectful of the relationship you've built or to the character & the community they "represent".

And then the game ends with confronting your stalker, because of course you have to. So, this is where the controversy thing crops back up and...I didn't have any issues with it until it got to this point, I think the REAL problem is the execution of the ending. The writers were more concerned about pushing a "feel good be a goody goody person" agenda than they were writing a meaningful story, so you get this ending:

Dude made a chimera from your weapon-friends (by assaulting and abducting them then mutilating their bodies), and now that chimera is trying to kill you. Dude's "self-loathing makes it stronger" so you have to comfort your abuser to beat the chimera and at the end it's like, "poor guy, you should seek a therapist." Like, this dude should be in prison. Sure, he should see a therapist, in the context of a prison cell. And THIS is why P5 is not comparable to this game, why it got a "pass" and BD doesn't. The antagonists in P5 are vilified, humiliated, arrested for their crimes. Boyfriend dungeon does that whole meta narrative thing of "this is how you actually be a good person" bs and... basically it comes down to the victim to absolve the abuser and the abuser sees no consequences for their actions. The crime and the punishment do not match. I'm sure if the villain got what he deserved in the end, it wouldn't have been such a big deal. I'm sure people are even more pissed about it because it was funded by a kickstarter campaign.

But ultimately, the ending of the game, the stalker dude and his behavior was only the tip of the iceburg, and they would have been aspects that were tangential to the experience if the romances were more fleshed out and better written. it needed more content overall, and considering the outcome in hindsight this game should have been either or. the plot should be longer, there should be at least another dunj. Or they could just lower the price of the game and my expectations would go down.
 

astropuffer
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 25 March, 2024
If you can get the game on a great deal, and are curious about it, I say give it a go. For me? It was a miss. The battle seems sluggish and button inputs delayed, making the dungeon harder then it should be. Through ROOMS of enemies, doesn't make a game better, just grindy. So far non of the characters give me good vibes, and the sort of 'forced to go on dates' thing feels very wrong to me.
Again the game isn't BAD (look how many good reviews!) but for me, I can't. I feel very off playing it, not liking how the choices are done for me at times, and leave me feeling sleazy.
 

Rhysand
0
17 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
8.2 hrs on record
Posted: 24 November, 2022
I am. So. Mad.

So I enjoyed a good amount of the gameplay/the idea of a lot of the characters but oof. Where it fails it fails bad.
That ending filled me with a rage I can't quite explain.
Like I'm sorry we just forgave basically Jeffery Dahmer and told him to get therapy because he's sad when he's been kidnapping our friends, cutting bits off of them, and making them into Frankenstein's monster.
He needs to go to jail.
Sure they heal back whatever bits get cut off of them, but he dumped them in freaking dungeons to literally die?? Seven literally lost 2 weeks of his life?? And my 7 sword boyfriends are ok with just telling him to get therapy??

And then to top it all off, Sunder dumps me because 'reasons'.

The roguelike elements were fun, Seven is OP. Jonah is probably the worst weapon gameplay wise bc hes so slow.
Now for my petty squabbles:

1. Valeria managed to be somehow specially curated to be exactly the worst waifu for me. See, I work in museums. She knows ♥♥♥♥ all about museums. Liberate art? Put it in public places for all to see? Lady, that's what a museum is!! Otherwise it's in some rich ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ private collection!! And the museum her so different girl version of Birth of Venus is in? Only costs $12 to get into and is free on sundays and to people under 18 and people with certain disabilities (I was so mad I looked it up). They go out of their way to give it away. Museums may have art worth 500 zillion dollars in their collections but that dosent mean they have tha kinda money sitting around. They have to pay their employees and keep the lights on somehow lady.

Spray painting the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ louvre? A ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ historical ass palace with more security than anything? For srs? Like they are trying to pose her as Banksy or the Guerilla Girls when she dosen't have a reason to do this beyond 'art should be free!' Like girly, if you were trying to tell political messages or something maybe I'd be a little behind you. But no. Making ME spray paint a building I know is probably mostly volunteer employed in a small town like this??
And she has her whole speech about hating perfect art but then her favorite painting is a freaking realism piece like smh girl. Perfection was the goal of the painter.
And then of course, of course, she hates ducks. And ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ about them after inviting me to a freaking date at a park?? I freaking birdwatch, like how was she so wildly specifically made to be everything I hate I have no idea.
NVM her manic pixie dream girl tendencies
or the incestuous 3 way relationship she was in. Thats right. incestuous. She said it as a 3 way, not as a 'they were both dating me' thing. 3 way means all 3 are in a unanimous relationship. Yikes.

2. Issac. Man whines about wealth inequality and wanting to make a difference and invests in freaking grindr for weapons and is surprised when his dad isn't thrilled. You wanna do something about wealth inequality son? Maybe do something like fight the fact that clearly weapons are discriminated against in the workplace going by Jonah. Thats an actually useful cause.
Issac is a petty little whiner baby and would probably be a pretty miserable husband longterm.

3. What is appealing about Jonah he is a unemployed dude spending his time drinking beer on the beach and quitting work the moment its a little rough rather than contacting the apparently nonexistent HR department of that restaurant. Like, I get the teddy bear pacifist dealio- and had they say, had him work for the cat cafe I think he'd have been perfect. But he's unemployed and in his like, late 20s? with no prospects? nty.

4. Sawyer is like that freshman in college you baby and help out but do not date.

5. Why can't I save Sunder from Mandy. I honestly assumed part of his story would be realizing she was gaslight/gatekeep/girlbossing him since she tries to scare everyone away from him and is so controlling to him.

Yea. I'm mad.
 

Swift
258 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
WARNING: Some vague storyline spoilers.

I followed this game from its kickstarter days, reading the dev blogs and first person character emails. The game combines my love of RPG hack and slash with my love of visual novel romance, but in its present state is unable to satisfy my hunger for either.

Tl:dr – The game is unsatisfying and shallow in most criteria, failing to fulfil either a desire for a good and varied RPG experience, or an engaging, intelligent (see adult level complexity), immersive, romantic graphic novel experience.

Overview:
Considering the amount of time the game was in development, and Kitfox's refusal to announce an actual release date, stating only it would be released when the 'weapons [were] beautiful enough', I wanted to believe the story side would be meaty enough to offset the largely repetitive combat. Unfortunately, the end result is very shallow, and it's a shame because people-weapons being wielded by dungeon crawlers is a neat and unique concept. I may go back again and try to master all the weapons just out of sheer OCD, but given the unsatisfying ending to my first mastery and that the game cuts you off once you finish the final mission (rather than allowing you to continue crawling and develop relationships with the other weapons), I really don't fancy starting from scratch.

Aesthetic:
I like the art style of the characters in their cut-scenes, but the top-down style for movement and combat is a bit cutesy for my tastes. I suppose given very vague sexual descriptions at various points in the game I might have expected a little more maturity in the graphics, but then again the descriptions are VERY vague in a fade to black way.
The music fits very well, but is quite repetitive and not really my genre.
The voice acting is actually pretty natural and fitting for each character, but engagement could have been improved VASTLY by voicing all narrative dialogue.

Combat and Movement:
Left button. Right button. F to heal. Q to special ability. Space to dodge. That’s it.
While the game does include combinations, and levelling up your relationship with a weapon unlocks new effects, you’ll be madly clicking your mouse buttons over and over again with little strategy required. If you’re looking for a challenge, you will not find it here at all – the ‘dunj’ crawling really is a mini-game to the relationship stories, levelling them up to max in order to unlock the next dating scenario.

Storylines:
I completed Sunder’s storyline well before the final overall game mission was available, and that left me pretty pissed off. It was a full stop to all development with that character, who I could still use in dungeons, but could take no further in a relationship sense; and the ending had me groaning a long fuuu$%uck oooooff and sneering “NOT a better story than Twilight”. As an author myself, I recognise there is so much potential, but I suddenly found myself involuntarily taking the ice-bucket challenge.
I got most of the way through Isaac, Seven and Valeria, and all but Seven had a curtain-fluttering, chime-tinkling, off-screen sleep over, but none of their stories were especially inspired.
Sawyer is a nice addition as far as non-binary inclusion is concerned, but looks like a child, so ew, no, no romancing there.
I did not unlock Rowan or Vitas Varnas.
For the amount of potential the concept has, the world’s context and the world in general is sparse, and feels like, ultimately, they decided to release the game with super short, flaccid stories on a stage dressed with cardboard cut-out scenery. Tastes a bit like cardboard too.

Adult Content and Questionables:
OMG they said sex! Mwah mwah kisses happen! That’s about it. Nothing truly risqué happens. Honestly, the only thing that made me feel a teensy bit uncomfortable, was some none-to-subtle racism (in this case weaponism?) from one of the characters, who funnily enough, turns out to be the same type of hypocrite as those religious evangelists spewing homophobic hate out one side of their mouth while sucking a c0ck with the other.

Conclusion:
This game is rated D for disappointment, and I get the distinct impression, D for future DLC which I will not invest in without more confidence in Kitfox’s ability to deliver stories that rise beyond cliché.
 

Briggles
0
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
the gameplay is ok. the story is ok until it becomes a allegory for rape apologists. rape is serious kids.
 

Rhea The Dog
881 products in account
0
32 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2022
I don't know what it is about this game, but it doesn't feel like a fun romp of a game/dating sim with laughing at the obvious humor of the premise, it instead leaves that uncomfortable feeling of a public school sex education class combined with cookie cutter therapy.

Basically it's like biting into what appears to be a chocolate chip and finding a it's made out of spinach and raisin and has the texture of hardtack.
 

shimmerfox
0
11 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
6.9 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
Has a lot going for it from a concept standpoint, but I feel like the writer/designer just gave up halfway through. Not much content: two dungeons, and a final boss. Second dungeon goes by way too quick (can craft a 2x damage hat). What's worse is the overarching plot & it's climax feels forced and underwhelming.

You get 2x love exp for weapons after you complete one character arc. This makes experiencing all stories easy, but at the expense of making the process of acquiring dates/grinding trivial.

if you like visual novel/dating sims, there isn't enough good storytelling. If you like dungeon crawlers there isn't enough dungeons to crawl through. Under 5 hours, cleared two character arcs, main game, all dungeons.

Hope someone takes the formula of this game and makes it better.
 

Nocx
250 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
10.8 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
I would like to preface this by saying I really wish I could put a "maybe" on whether I'd recommend this game. I struggled on whether I should put yes or no. I want to say that I was excited for the game. I followed the developers on tiktok and have been hyped for its release. But the best way I could describe this game is "almost enough." My time logged is the amount of time that it took me to 100% the game, all achievements, all character routes.

Pros
-The art is beautiful, and while the moments of animation are short and far between, they really do add a lot to the game.
-The characters are quite diverse, and the inclusion of nonbinary characters as someone who is nonbinary myself is quite refreshing. I appreciated that you could date anyone freely. I know LGBT friendly dating games are becoming more frequent, but I'm still happy for every inclusion there is.
-You can be fully polyamorous with no consequence. Which means if you want to be like me and delay the end story point until you kiss all the characters, you can! Which is very very nice.
-Your cousin Jesse. I love him. I love him so much.
-The freedom you're given. Outside of tutorial segment, you're free to explore the dunj at your own pace. You could focus all your time on one weapon, or split it evenly amongst weapons. There's no real rush to finish the game, regardless of when in the summer the text messages say it is, so you can go at your leisure and really ensure that you see everything.

Cons
-The length. There are only 2 dunj's in the entire game. Honestly I was expecting a lot more. My personal experience was having my birthday party, being told its the middle of summer, then immediately being told after one more dunj trip that my time was almost up.
-Your choices don't matter. Now there is branching dialogue options a little bit, but 90% of options as far as I could tell lead to a few lines different of dialogue. Even if you choose an option a character really likes while on a date with them, it doesn't give any additional affection or change the ending at all. Which plays into my next point.
-The surface level writing. There is a lot of diversity, yes, but the problem with the amount of characters is that if you were really only here for one, I feel like you'd be quite disappointed. Each story is very predictable, and it feels like you're going through a checklist of basic date ideas or story points with each character instead of delving deep into their psyches. Which for a game that has one of the main points being "overcoming your fears" really surprised me.
-The simplicity of the gameplay. It was hard to tell if this was a real con or not, because I don't really mind easier games, but overall it was just a bit meh. It felt very barebones. I appreciated the different play styles with the different weapons, but this game felt like an emptier Hades, gameplay wise.
-The way you unlock Rowan. This is more of a personal gripe. I believed I would encounter them like every other weapon through the dunjs, only to discover that I was supposed to run North past my vision at the beginning of the game. A lot of my playtime was just grinding their affection to catch up. A dialogue queue mentioning the mansion to the north would've been nice.
-THE STUPID BUG RACING GAME. It took me an hour to finish it. Which doesn't sound like a lot, but it was only 3 races. F*ck those bugs.
-Your inability to say 'no' to romance. You can deny the sex scenes in the game (their very PG anyway, so you're not missing out on much), and insist on friendship. Yet despite that, the characters still continue to regard you in a romantic way most of the time. The biggest example of this particular gripe is Sunder. I'll explain in detail below.
Spoiler warning from here on out but these are massive cons to the game.



Overall I'd say this game is almost enough. It should've been expanded more, given more time to breathe or had more people working on it. I imagine with the kickstarter and tiktok fame though, the devs probably only had so long they could work on it. That leaves the game feeling very shiny and polished, but overall hollow. Like empty calories. They're sweet, and I enjoy them, but it doesn't take me long to get through it and doesn't leave me feeling full for long, if at all. If the devs ever come out with expansions tot the game, such as additional dunj's or weapons, I'll certainly check it out, but outside of that, I don't feel any desire to replay it. If you believe that you'd enjoy this game, I say still go for it. Just be ready for a very short experience, and one that's very bare bones. I think with more time and experience under their belts, the devs can do a lot more, and I'd still be happy to watch their projects in the future.
 

Bunny
0
11 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.3 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
Despite the lengthy development (the game was first scheduled to arrive in September 2019) the game feels rushed and incomplete.

The game is extremely short, 6-7 hours to complete - maybe 9 hours, if you want to max all the weapons. There are only two small dungeons, each with two biomes, one mini-boss and one boss. Combat is simplistic and easy - mashing the quick attack as fast as possible works on all the enemies and bosses equally well - although the latter can take as long as 20 seconds to take down! Despite the lack of challenge you will replay the dungeons a couple of times to max all the weapons/relationships, but at this point you won't even look at the abilities you are unlocking. The visuals are nice, but too often I was getting stuck in unpassable corridors or on holes in floor. In the town hub you can do some crafting, but it is equally boring - the outfits don't do anything, the gifts you have in over-abudance anyway, and the ingredients can be purchased dirt cheap from the stores (which does not involve the hassle of fighting the monsters).

It seems this is not a rogue-like exploration game interspersed with romance (as there is barely any dungeoning to speak of), but the other way around - a visual novel artificially extended by the grind of mashing the buttons for a while and leveling up the weapons.

So lets talk about the other part of the game. Visuals are once again top-notch... but the plot is bonkers. The workings of the world are not explained or explored (with the protagonist immediately accepting even the craziest ideas at face value). They are supposedly trying to gain confidence and grow as a person, but  - sorry, but I fail to see the connection. Final boss jumps in from a completely unrelated plot, which is flagged at the beginning and then forgotten until the very end of the game. But the craziest thing is that a game about healthy consensual relationships forces the player character into several unhealthy ones, and gives the player no opportunity to refuse dates or back out of relationships. I tried my best to avoid some characters by simply not replying to their texts - but it lock me out of the main plot, as this was not something anticipated by the devs. "You WILL play nice and obviously, that WAS a date, no matter what you say" - thank you game, should I just put down the controller and watch the playthrough on YouTube instead? Despite that, the various weapons are written well and they have their distinct personalities - I just wish the romance was not shoved down my throat so forcefully...

Finally, I must mention the music. The slow and repetitive elevator tunes with weird pauses and electronically over-processed vocals are absolutely horrid. There was probably one track suitable to the pace of combat which did not make me want to turn the volume all the way down. What's worst - you can craft two sets of headphones in-game, but (contrary to description) I heard no difference in tunes.

Despite some intriguing ideas this is ultimately a failed product which does not justify its price tag. There is not enough player agenda (or choice) in the visual novel part, and the dungeoning part is short and boring.
 

czwarty
2,523 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
13.2 hrs on record
Posted: 14 July, 2023
Sunder's route is super disappointing. idk if the game is trying to teach you a lesson about dating bad boys but for me that's what this genre is for??? I have a super healthy relationship irl i wanna date a toxic mess boy in the dating sim. it's supposed to be fun, and to me the ending felt weirdly passive aggressive towards the player.
 

babyghool
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 August, 2021
I can't really in good faith recommend this game for a few reasons.

The first and biggest reason is that this game doesn't really feel quite finished. It feels like maybe the first half of both a fun dungeon crawler and an in-depth dating sim but not like the second half of either. This game basically feels like a glorified free demo. A good example of this is the retro handheld minigame interface. It certainly feels like it's meant to have multiple cartridges to find and play but as far as I can tell there's only the one videogame for it in the game. On the dating sim side, another reviewer brought up a really good point about how your character's texting style seems hilariously one-sided but I think they covered that ground, you can find that one. So all that said, if you can get this game on sale for half price, I say go for it. I think this game easily provides a solid $10 of entertainment value.

The second reason is the kind of more complicated. This game has a lot of the aesthetic of progressive culture but some of the execution makes it . . .weird. There's a lot of very surface-level mapping of the weapon-people to the broader genderqueer community in general that both falls apart and maybe says some things that aren't super great when examined more in depth. Any example I would give would involve pretty deep spoilers, but I've thought of one. So several times in the various storylines, a Weapon will assume their weapon form outside of the Dungeon to intimidate someone or get someone to back off. In this game where being a weapon is also sort of conflated with being genderqueer there are a few ways to read this and a lot of them are less than great. Being proud and living your life authentically (and/or publicly exposing your Queerness) are on some level being equated with reminding someone that you are capable of dealing them bodily harm. These scenes also hurt the worldbuilding a little bit in my opinion (if a Weapon-person can direct attacks against someone without a Wielder, as these scenes imply, why do they need people like the player character at all?). Also, for a game that wants to be about diversity and inclusion, there's some kind of weird themes around the Black characters. Isaac's storyline is all about comically out-of-touch 1%ers and Olivia is unsympathetic at best and actively antagonistic and unlikable at worst depending on the context and storyline she's showing up in and those are really the only two major Black characters I can recall. Your mileage will vary depending on your personal politics and how these story elements resonate with you, but for me the deeper I tried to analyze the various themes being brought up, the stranger a lot of the takes seemed to get. If you're just mashing A through the dialog scenes so you can get to more pictures of cute boyfriends, this part will probably not bother you at all.

Overall, part of what makes this game so hard to recommend in good faith is that it really seems like there's a lot of potential for a great game in here. There's a lot of interesting ideas and a cool world introduced that would be awesome to really explore but you barely manage to dip a toe into it before it's over. There are only two dungeons and I felt like the game was over as soon as I had really gotten the hang of how to play it. If a free DLC or two comes out for this game giving it a bit more content, I'll definitely change this review to a recommend but for now my advice is wait for a significant sale on this title.
 

Peace
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 23 August, 2024
Boyfriend Dungeon is a game I picked up because I thought it looked cool. A dating simulator where the people you date turn into weapons and then you build relationships by taking them into the dungeon? That sounds pretty neat!! Except the execution left much to be desired. In the initial version of the game, there were two dungeons. That's it. Two whole dungeons in a game about dungeon crawling. The combat in the dungeons can feel shallow, with your moveset changing between your various partners. Speaking of whom, though the game is called Boyfriend Dungeon, you'll be met with a cast of men, women, non-binaries, and a cat, all of which you can swing at monsters with. The strength and abilities of each weapon are dependant on your relationship progress with each character, meaning the new weapons you pick up later will be weaker and harder to use against the current dungeon, forcing you to find a way to cope with it or to move back to an earlier section of the game. As for the bosses of each dungeon, they range from "incredibly boring and straightforward" to "how the hell am I supposed to even approach this". That mostly covers the Dungeon part, so moving onto the Boyfriend part; The game will not shame you for polyamory, though you do have the choice to keep a relationship platonic when interacting with the cast, which I appreciate. At a certain point, they released a free DLC that added three more weapons (only two of which you could wield), and a whole one more dungeon. For a total of three dungeons. In a DUNGEON CRAWLER. Yes I am still bitter about this. No matter which sword you choose to smooch, you will be harassed by a blacksmith that your cousin tries to set you up with. He is, undoubtedly, the worst part of this game. Using the game's texting system, he pesters you constantly, even after you tell him to go away. I wish you could just ignore him, but you are forced to answer to every one of his messages in order to move the game's plot forward, and watch as he stalks you on dates and harasses your partners. Then, during the final boss fight (spoilers, by the way) you are forced to tell him that he isn't a horrible person and that he's trying to become better in order to weaken the final boss.

Overall, it feels like a waste of an interesting premise.
 

StarKnightAlpha
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
24.8 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
I'll start off by saying I don't hate this game. I just can't recommend it for the price of $20.

The game is mostly what you would think. It's a dungeon crawler with dating aspects. What I mean by mostly is that it's all lacking. It feels like, rather than focusing more on one to make it very enjoyable, they simply didn't give either of them much thought. There's two (2) dungeons that are a total of twelve (12) levels which isn't much when you can just brute force your way to the end of many of them. I struggled a bit when I first played, but when I turned off mouse aiming for the second play through, I was almost able to beat the first dungeon on Rank 1 Love with my first weapon. I can't say I'm surprised seeing as it was marketed as a dating game, but when the other aspects are lacking, it just all feels disappointing,

The dating is lacking completely. None of your choices really matter. You may get a slight difference in text messages, but there's no real choice is turning down dates, refusing to dance, or how your relationship progresses. There are dialogue choices to specify whether you feel romantically for them or not, but they still pursue you rather aggressively. There's a feature listed in the description that mentions taking your weapon of choice on different outings, and I have to say it's very misleading. The dates are the same every time, and for some such as Sunder, most of the dates are even in the same location.

I wanted to like this game. I let myself get hopeful while waiting for the release, and it's been a bigger letdown than even I would expect. If you want the game, wait for a holiday sale.

ETA: Now that I've "romanced" all the available players, I can definitely say there is no substance to this game. Even after eighteen (18) hours in, I don't quite feel like I got my money's worth.
 

owopeyton
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
14.9 hrs on record
Posted: 22 August, 2022
I had been looking at this game for a bit and picked it up on sale out of boredom. I wasn't expecting much. I was hooked a couple hours in, but near the end I was bored.

Starting off, I was impressed by everything it had: character customization, crafting, interactive texts, and a good variety of romances. It has all the right mechanics and a great foundation, but the writing needs a lot of work. There are all these characters, platonic or otherwise, and this great little world the writers have created, only to have the story go nowhere when it hits the climax; then the story resolves itself quickly and VOILA you've hit end game :\
(Also the "twist" with Sunder? UGH, WHY. This felt like pandering to fans of that aesthetic, and it added nothing to the story line -- not even HIS story line.)

The pacing through me off a bit, too. Maybe I didn't dungeon enough, but it didn't take much to get 6 romances maxed out, so all I had left was the 3rd dungeon. I didn't end up beating it because it got too boring. I romanced a 7th character just to give me something else to do.

Overall? It's an okay game geared towards casual players, with underwhelming and uninspired writing. If you're someone who likes challenging gameplay and a little more from your dating sims besides just, "Hey I'm a nobody that's new in town and looking for love, but no promises 'cause I'm leaving in 2 months anyway", then look elsewhere.
 

Arkham
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 26 December, 2021
Product refunded

The combat feels very unsatisfying and the story managed to be both uncomfortable and unengaging for me. However, the soundtrack, voice work, and art are all very well done! It's just too bad the most important parts of the game are so middling.
 

Ermamu
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
27.7 hrs on record
Posted: 25 August, 2021
This really is just a classic example of a game that tries to do too much and ends up doing very little everywhere. While the concepts are fun, it is very shallow. The dungeon crawling aspect is cute in concept, but without much variety that leaves it feeling very tedious even in terms of dungeon-crawling. The characters have varied personalities, but the rushed dating mechanics means that things move too fast, and a lot of the characters feel almost like parodies.

TL;DR: fun in design, bad in execution.
 

Indigo_Veqea
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
21.7 hrs on record
Posted: 23 October, 2023
!!!Spoilers!!! Overall game is about 3.5/5 stars. I liked some of the roguelite aspects, I liked most of the plot about the stalker, didn't like that you kinda just turn around and fix his issues for him. Some of the characters were also just a bit weird and cringy. Not bad game, just could've been better. Also the 'Get all gifts' achievement might be broken, had to modify the game files to get it.
 

OhWormMan
377 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
I do like the game, but I wasn't expecting the stalking to get so intense and the Mom character felt way too overbearing in a way that was unexpectedly triggering (although I acknowledge and appreciate that the developers allowed you to disable the Mom character). This game made me feel claustrophobic in a way I didn't anticipate. Also, a decent number of the characters introduced in the first half of the game looked like they were in their late-thirties *at least* - that was unexpected, given that my character keeps getting routinely checked-in on by their cousin and mother as if they were still a child - and although I appreciate the age diversity, it made the feeling of being forced to date them feel even more icky. Plus, I personally felt that the voice acting was kind of cringy.

In all fairness, the complaints about the appearance and voice acting are pretty shallow and are not actually the reasons why I can't recommend the game. Ultimately, the stalking and the feeling of being forced into romantic relationships with characters I had no interest in is what put me off. The game description talks a big game about being inclusive of platonic love, but I personally didn't see it. It was all too easy to fall into weirdly-romantic entanglements by accident. Usually I'm a ho in dating sims so I was excited by the idea of game-sanctioned polyamory, but I still wanted to *choose* whether or not I'd pursue a person, rather than feeling railroaded into these romances.

I may try this game out again in the future when modding support comes out and fixes the issues that I have with the game, but until then, it's a 'no' from me, dawg.

Sidenote: the soundtrack is a banger and Valeria best girl
 

mmmcheezy225
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.3 hrs on record
Posted: 26 December, 2021
I was given this as a christmas gift as a laugh, but the story was much darker and less funny than the game seemed to be marketed as. I've beaten it already, and was left feeling creeped out by the story and disappointed at how much I disliked all of the available romance options. Bummer!
 

hikahi
259 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.4 hrs on record
Posted: 21 August, 2021
Fun concept, too bad it's so short and underwhelming. The dungeoncrawling is feather-light - there's only two dungeons and a few variations of health-sponge enemies, very little in the way of combos, and the only thing you have besides weapon attacks are 'Zines' (basically magic) which do negligible damage and you can only hold 3 uses at a time anyway.

That'd be fine if the dating sim was up to snuff...but it isn't, being more or less linear with only a few minor variations here and there. It's not terrible, there's just no *there* there.
 

Shadii 💍
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.2 hrs on record
Posted: 7 October, 2021
Overall I don’t know where I stand on Boyfriend Dungeon. As a dating sim it has some genuinely great moments thanks to excellent character writing. In fact, played almost strictly as a dating sim I’d say it is one well worth your time if you’re a fan of the genre. The dungeon crawling aspects however really hold the entire title down and actively make a fairly good game a lot worse. If you’re someone who only needs a good story to play through a game then give Boyfriend Dungeon a go, but if poorly executed gameplay will ruin an entire game for you then this is a title to steer clear of.

Full review here: https://frostilyte.ca/2021/10/07/boyfriend-dungeon-review/
 

Frostilyte
431 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 December, 2021
It's very short. There's a bunch of weapons but only two dungeons. I would recommend this game for $10, not $20.

However, I really liked the option to just be friends with everyone. No romance needed. I bought this solely because a cat was one of the options. The gift system was great, too. If you pay attention, you'd know who to give ambiguous gifts like the mystery novel or retro video game, unlike other dating sims where you rely on stereotypes or guessing.

Also, can we talk about how Eric was so insecure, that he attacked a cat for rejecting him? Loser.
 

Purrrogi
122 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.7 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
I can honestly say i regret buying this game. It was a fun 6 or so hours of my life but for as much as it costs when I'm pretty poor it was not really worth it. It's a really great concept, just really poorly executed. 2 Dungeons (I refuse to call them what they call them in the game) and a very lackluster final boss fight were done in no time. The romances/friendships felt very stilted and somewhat confusingly written. I felt very forced to only do certain things, like being at odds with one of the friends of the character i was mainly dating, for example. With another character i kept telling him to back off but when I wanted to know why he was gone for so long, out of curiosity, ingame it turned into a moment of jealousy and supposed insecurity? Suffice to say, I really did not enjoy the writing very much either. I really wanted to though. There were a few moments i loved the writing, like how sawyer was so happy to know another nonbinary person. It felt like a real human piece of dialogue, partially because that's the kind of thing i would've said in a similar situation.
One of the main parts i didn't like was when the "main antagonist" rather patronisingly called another nonbinary character an enby, and no one called him out on it for being infantalising and that grinded my gears a bit. A lot of Nonbinary people don't like being called an "enby" and while i'm not one of them i do believe its a term others can use to be infantilising and it should only be a term used when its absolutely okay by the person in question. In that vein, i just hated that the guy who said it wasn't called out. I was ok with how the "stalker" character was portrayed he was oddly the most 3 dimensional feeling character in the end. While i liked how everyone reacted to him it all still felt like it was handled rather oddly. But really, as i said before, the writing was not very enjoyable.
If the characters were rewritten, made to feel more human and 3 dimensional that alone would honestly make me want to play the game again. i really did love the concept and i loved the concept of the characters too, they just really didn't feel right. More dungeon content would also be nice, but i had some misgivings with the combat albeit that might be more the fault of my controller, but it felt clunky so beware of that possibility.
I read that they were planning on adding dlc/more characters. If it was free dlc or just an update, I wager it would make the game more worth it, especially if the writing improves.

All in all it was an ok game with a lot of downfalls, but definitely some bits that made me smile. I can only recommend you buy the game when its on sale though if after reading this review you still think you'd enjoy the game. 6 hours and completed is not a lot of time at all for a game that costs this much.
 

Mali
316 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.3 hrs on record
Posted: 25 April, 2022
Extremely short for the price. And pretty annoying that the characters just decide they are with you despite blatantly telling them you just want to be friends.

It is a fun game, but not worth the money at all.
 

Choirchick22
679 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 May, 2024
It was more of a visual novel than a rouge like. I did not like it very much.
 

Huckleberry
1,873 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2021
I was looking forward to trying out this game, but the combat mechanic is terrible and makes playing an annoying chore. You have a character that you move around with the AWSD keys, but if you use your weapon the character turns around unexpectedly and it is incredibly difficult to control the movement direction when you are fighting. You end up with a bunch of monsters who keep hitting you in the back because your character won't turn around.

Another complaint I have is that this game does not allow you to save whenever you want. Given the difficult combat mechanics that is especially annoying.

Finally, with this sort of game I expect to have CGs and a gallery to view the ones you have unlocked. Neither of those are available from what I can tell.

I don't think this game was ready for release.
 

webryder
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: 21 February, 2024
I have very mixed feelings about the game. The first half feels like a massive chore due to how slow the combat is, how weak you are and how much HP enemies have. The second half is decent, things speed up a bit once you have more weapon upgrades. But it really shouldn't take that long. And the writing and the game as a whole felt so... off. It feels like it was written by someone who was on Tumblr in 2015 and then they time-travelled to the future to make this game.

All the characters felt rather... bland I guess? they simply lacked a unique charm and some of them came off as straight up stereotypical (namely Sunder and all the Non-Binary characters).

Also, the game felt like it tried too hard to be Hades and you should honestly play that game instead if that's what you want.
 

Tiger
147 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.4 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
Boyfriend Dungeon was a game I really wanted to recommend and enjoy, and for the most part, I did. However, certain decisions made with the story have left me with a bad taste in my mouth, and for this I cannot recommend this game.

I wanted to praise this game for how inclusive it was. You can choose to be male, female, or non-binary. I also appreciated that you were not locked into this decision and that you were freely able to change as you progressed through the game. This was a stress-free dating Sim as you were able to explore the many datable weapons without consequence. Ordering the MC skintones to start from deepest to fairest was also a nice touch. The amount of LGBTQ+ representation was great and wholesome. On that? A+.

The actual dungeon crawling in a game that has dungeon in its name was… bland. Combat was repetitive and not very challenging. Even with the different weapon styles, your experience does not change much. But I could have forgiven this had the ending not 
 

Pochocco
0
12 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
4.9 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
There is not enough content here to warrant a purchase right now, especially not for what is being presented as a finished product. I'm 5 hours in and have completed the main story, the two (2!) total dungeons, and most of the available romances.

The game fails both as a dungeon crawler and a dating sim at this time. While the dungeon crawling mechanics are solid (if very simplistic) hack and slash fare, the very limited amount of variance in the disappointingly short procedurally generated levels in the two dungeons mean you will speed through them very quickly. Coupled with the fact that the limited amount of discoverable items currently available as rewards for these dungeon crawls means that the sole reason to delve into these two dungeons is simply to max out your next bond levels with your favorite romanceable weapons. Even this would probably be more forgivable if the romances were satisfying - they aren't.

Boyfriend Dungeon currently has three (3) male romance options, two (2) nonbinary, one (1, this game isn't called Girlfriend Dungeon for a reason) female, and a single cat that mercifully only has a friendship route available. Two additional romances have been teased as eventual Kickstarter-backed rewards that will be added at a later date, one male (an axe, currently appearing only as a cameo in the early stages of the game; also the only hypothetically romanceable character to feature a less 'conventionally attractive' physique if we remember that the cat is thankfully just your friend) and one female (a hammer, currently absent.) There's an attempt to inject deeper themes such as issues of fidelity, living with chronic mental illness, and coping with loss into the romances, of which there are six (6) scenes total for each potential Boyfriend/Girlfriend/Theyfriend. The problem is that these attempts to add more complex issues into each weapon's storyline does little to enhance them if each character amounts to little more than stock tropes.

The Glaive recently came out as nonbinary and is learning to embrace their identity! Cool, but what's the point of that if the writing for each of their scenes doesn't progress beyond 'this character is literally a child that doesn't know what basic food items are?' The Talwar attempts to reconcile a wildly polyamorous lifestyle with a desire to connect with people on a deeper, meaningful level, but what's point of that if his character can be reduced to 'promiscuous vampire' every time he appears on screen? Special shoutout to the Laser Saber and the Scythe, who are both dealing with their own versions of depression, and that of course justifies how incredibly rude they are to you. I dunno about you, but if I wanted to be negged for around $20 USD I'd just get a Tinder Gold subscription.

I know that those of us who identify as queer people feel really starved for queer content, and that much of the time we're forced to satisfy ourselves with scraps - halfhearted romances with characters without unique facemaps in AAA titles, ambitious but poorly funded indie novels, the offhanded mention that one of your backup units has a husband in a jRPG - and Boyfriend Dungeon's announcement a few years back really seemed to be a breath of fresh air against that backdrop. But as it stands, unless there's much, much more on the horizon? This is just more scraps.

TL;DR:
Pros: Art is nice, Music is great, asking permission to receive texts from 'Mom' and being able to say 'hell naw' is nice
Cons: Reductive writing, Poor dungeon crawling, the failure to meet pretty much every single expectation placed
 

exhaled innards
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2024
I left this game feeling very mixed. I really enjoyed most of it, but it feels like the beta version or play test of a game rather than a completed game. Starting with the areas without issue, the music is very solid, the zines are all fun to use, the crafting is excellent, and the enemies are all really fun to fight for the most part.

Next, the problems. The combat, while fun at times, has so many interesting ideas that feel almost finished. Out of all the weapons, the only one that feels finished in combat is the dagger. Every other weapon lacks combos or synergy with it's abilities. The axe for example has only two combos which get boring really quickly. Leveling up also feels lackluster when all you gain is health and monster damage scaling causes that extra health to be unremarkable. A stamina system or character abilities would make each level feel more impactful. Finally, there is no wave mechanic to stagger monsters spawning in and add extra strategy to combat. Monsters spawn in all at once and are mainly difficult because they swarm you.

Then there's the dating sim side. Though the story is mostly fleshed out, it doesn't feel like you have much of an impact on it. Rather than having a major impact on how the story plays out, the story happens to you with you only getting to choose which parts play out around you. Each character is fairly flat, with a few exceptions, and any of the dialog choices you make don't seem to make an impact on the story. You can give people gifts, but there is no in game system to track their likes. Though such a system is not needed as each character's likes are extremely basic and easy to guess. The cat gets the cat toys, the surfer the surfboard, the business man the cuff links, and so on. Those things wouldn't be big problems if any of the character's were fun to date. The minimal voice acting and lack of diverse character sprites results in you seeing and hearing everything pertaining to a character after an hour or so. On top of that, the dates are all boring, predictable, or cheesy in a bad way as it feels like minimal effort was put into the writing. A final thing to add is the lack of character customization. While the clothing options are all fun and there are plenty of them, there's a disappointing lack of hair styles and no way to customize your body type outside of gender.

All in all, I enjoyed my first play through, but won't be playing Boyfriend Dungeon again and can't recommend it. If you can get it half off like I did then it might be worth it for a lot of people, but there are also finished games you can get for the same price. Go spend that money on something like Cosmic Wheel Sisterhood or a better dating sim.
 

Dragon-Lord
0
13 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2021
Boyfriend Dungeon is a game that feels well intentioned, but does little to actually provide any meaningful gameplay or story.

You are a nobody with no confidence who rolls into town for the summer. You are told there are dungeons that manifest your fears! So go in, kills some monsters, make some money, all while wielding a weapon that is also a person. With that premise, how does it fall flat?

Well, to start, combat is very lackluster. It's usually a 3-4 hit chain of LMB for light and RMB for heavy. Enemies have extremely telegraphed moves and hitting them pauses their attacks wind up, meaning you can get through the dungeons with little to no effort. The layout of the dungeons makes it easy to kite them too, making the whole process of going through dungeons mostly thoughtless. You can also use "Zines" and "Beverages" to do special abilities and to heal, respectively. These items are found en masse in the dungeon too, making their potential impact on gameplay mostly meaningless. It also might help if there were more than only 2 dungeons with less than 30 floors between BOTH of them. You do also find money and crafting materials in dungeons, but I'll list why I don't find those to matter much.

Moving on to crafting, you can find blueprints in dungeons, along with crafting materials. You can craft outfits for yourself, new zines, gifts, and helmets. The issue is that most of these things are quite useless, and you can only craft each item ONCE. Helmets (sometimes) give unique effects that make them worth crafting. Outfits just change your look, nothing else. Zines can be helpful, but they give you the arguably best one at the start. Gifts, well, gifts are worthless. Gifts can be given for potential boost in affection to any weapons you have. They would be good, if it wasn't so easy to just go through a dungeon mindlessly killing to get the affection instead of finding the materials for the gift, crafting it outside of the dungeon, finding a moment to give the gift, and then maybe they'll like the gift. Oh, and did I mention you can only craft a gift once? (I did.) That means that if you give a pizza to a guy, and he hates it, you can never give anyone else a pizza in that particular save.

As for the characters, they're shallowly written and their stories are far too short. You get, in counting, 6 dates with them. The dates are... very short and often feel pointless. Cat goes to cafe, you see cat, cat hisses at woman, leaves. Go to movie with guy, he get's noticed, leaves, then you leave after talking to the person who noticed him. No real... substance. You also get some unique flavor text if you have them when you find certain spots in the dungeons, but the actual stories of the characters are only worth maybe 40 minutes of reading EACH. You have the horny stud at the nightclub, the renegade painter, the dorky college student, etc. None of the characters feel unique. (Also, personal gripe, but for a game that centers around diversity and inclusion, why are 3 of the potential partners slim men , 2 androgenous slim people, 1 slim woman, and 1 cat...? Where's the second female option for women who like women? Where are the chubbier people? I personally might prefer toned women, so these choices don't apply to me. Bu,t for a game that prides itself on being inclusive, being this limited feels like a severe let down.)

The art is unique, but they didn't push themselves. Enemies are bar glasses, stereos, cell phones, etc. The overworld looks, ultimately, generic. The portraits have this uncanny valley vibe to them. It just feels... off. I would've loved to see the world they've made be given a true identity, as it feels like right now it has none.

The story is messy and, I'm sorry but, it's utterly terrible. I'll summarize the start, and then put in the spoiler tag my gripes about the mid to late game story. You arrive at the beach town. Your cousin gives you an apartment for the summer free of rent. He sets you up with dates and the dungeon gigs. You find weapons down there who all don't remember how they got down there. Then, they come back to the surface to date you with dialogue that ranges from pretty good to downright cringe. Now, for the spoiler-y stuff: 

Now, you'd think that, at the very least, despite all the issues elsewhere, that the game that let's you smooch your weapons would have at the very least a CG kiss scene, right? Well, uh... No. There is no CG. Of any kind. The only visual cues are changes in the character's portrait expressions.

So, in short, there are 2 short dungeons, 7 date-able characters with little depth to them, a lackluster art direction, and good intentions. It's not nearly worth $20. I'd say it's worth half that in it's current state, especially given we're missing one of the stretch goal characters from the Kickstarter and the other stretch goal one makes a one time story appearance only to disappear forever. As a Kickstarter backer, I am disappointed, as I backed it in the hopes that it would be far deeper an experience than it can offer right now. Wait to see how they treat post launch, see how their "lite modding support" goes, and then make your decision.
 

MangoMaraudr
2,242 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2022
as a dating sim, yes. anything more than that? eh.

cute game, however the gameplay can be wonky. i found myself dying in dunsj because i maxed out the lovers I was interested in and it was pretty pointless to continue unless i wanted to collect recipes. the main antagonist being pushed on to you feels awkward, and despite them mentioning that you will meet such in the game, it is annoying that you cannot permanently tell him to go away. i found him quite creepy.

the fact that there are only 2 dunsjs feels off, i completed them way too fast. maybe i was just looking into the rougelite part of the game too much, and not as much into the dating sim one.
 

zamolxxis
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.0 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
I was really rooting for this game to be great, I've been holding out for it's release since I saw it first advertised on kickstarter, but I found myself disappointed. I was hoping to have basically Hades but Otome - fun combat + interesting story and love interests. But I found the controls are extremely janky, and I was unable to rebind keys meaning I barely could use the dodge roll and often misclicked the heal (F and you use the WASD to move, you can see the problem here).
The characters are a decently wide range, I was happy to see something for everyone, despite there not really being one who was my type, I was able to pick one I was basically satisfied it so I wouldn't dock points for this, my main qualm is that some of them feel very flat and one dimensional, and some of the others are just flat out jerks.
My biggest gripe with this is it didn't feel rewarding to play. Every time you go on a "date" it feels like you aren't progressing in a relationship, it feels very much the exact same each time, like for Seven, it feels very much like "oh we're best friends but dating I guess". There's no art you get to unlock in a gallery for finishing a route, there's no sort of gratification for finish a route, it feels very pointless and like the relationship you were building up was for nothing.
I finished this game in a day which was expected, I wasn't expecting a long game, but the story does feel a little rushed. I was surprised that after a few dates and dungeon runs the cousin was texting me that summer is over.
I want to be as fair as possible, but I am biased as I wanted to play this for so long so in my heart I WANT to love this game, it's such a good concept. But unfortunately, it feels wasted.

If you want something quick then you might enjoy this, but if you were expecting a fun dungeon crawler with a satisfying romance... I can't recommend it as much as I want to. One thing I can say though? The music in this game is an absolute bop.
 

Bai Lang
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.8 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
I can only recommend this game to those who want a brain dead VN experience. I don't really mind that but I can't recommend it as that's basically all it is. The combat is left click, right click, and dodge (which is terribly useless). As boring as the Dungeon part is, it's the only part I'm super into. Sometimes I do just wanna spam a click button and kill things.

I like some of the serious issues it's trying to tackle except the one about stalking. They provide a warning that stalking is going to be in the game. This should honestly be on the game description on the store. I was taken aback by this but I figured it'd be something in passing. It's not. It's the MAIN STORY LINE. You have to deal with this dude stalking you and constantly ignoring your rejections as "jokes". It was super uncomfortable as I've lived through this in real life and would LOVE to be able to not have to live it in my video game. I don't see why this isn't an option to opt out of if you can opt out of SUPPORTIVE MOM texts. It's even worse that he owns a store you might need to go to once in a while. idk maybe later in the game you get to beat him up? Maybe I'll try to finish it and see. But it's a rough go.

in summary: if having to deal with a stalker the entire plot line is going to bring out some past trauma, don't play this game at all. If that doesn't bother you, just know there's nothing super exciting in the game as the battle is pretty minimal. It's not TERRIBLE but it's nothing I could recommend at full price.


 

ThePengimaster
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.4 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
If there will be free dlc or big update with extra weapons and dungeons - change on like. Now it's too short for game, which must be released in 2019.
 

Darkness
742 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
Times when Steam needs a Maybe button.

Anyway this is one fun and amazing game, its only about 5 hours long but wonderful voice acting and a whole lot of monster killing.

The issue i have is i can't recommend anybody this game. There are only two dungeons and it feels like once you complete both the end is rushed. (i'm hoping that the game was released in a unfinished state and this is half the game)
The romances stop abruptly, however take that as you wish. i feel that they do once you get to max level there isn't anything else but maxing out the rest.
and i would like to know more about Eric and this what ever (trying not to spoil for people)

There really isn't like a endless dunegon mode to farm once you finish both dungeons and finish? the game, which i think would be a cool mechanic with monsters getting harder and harder as you go just for those who do indeed finish.

In dating like games i expect there to be happy endings/bad endings etc and i just dont get that from this game and replay ability is a big thing for me and this genre.
Ill keep an eye out for updates and genuinely enjoyed the game but the endgame is lacklustre
 

NukaPooka
424 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
I wanted to like this game and was excited to play it but at full price, while I don't really regret it, I can't recommend it. Maybe pick it up when it's on sale? This game doesn't feel finished. It is all style and no substance.

The writing is hamfisted and it railroads you. There are just two dungeons in the game and the combat is Fine with a capital F.

If you're expecting a game with branching paths or even good ends/bad ends with characters: this isn't it. Sometimes I even found myself struggling to like a majority of the love options which is a unique experience for me.

This summer lovin' was left lackin' I'm sorry to say. It is a wonderful idea with lackluster execution. I wish I could like this game more.
 

bugbird
329 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 26 November, 2021
The art was pretty, which is why I wanted to play, plus I love dating sims, but I was never very good at the arcade style games, and the dungeon was too much like those style games and too much repetitive key mashing for me. Plus that part was really, really old-school looking, and not really to my taste. Sorry.
 

TheBestSparkleDog
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
Resettear like dungeon crawler with Persona social links.

*Good weapon variety, dungeons have no challenge and are outleveled really fast.
*Dating elements lack depth, choices during dialogs mostly don't matter for the story, only for love points, think persona social links.
*Swords don't interact with each other, main plot doesn't involve any of them after initial setup and resolution.
*Done in less than 10 hours
 

TheGrandDuke
63 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.3 hrs on record
Posted: 9 March, 2024
All around miserable experience, sucks as both a dating sim and a roguelike. It's important to point out that while the warning at the start of the game does mention that there will be references to emotional manipulation, stalking, and unwanted advances, that's far from the whole truth. These themes are explored by the presence of a specific villain character, and are portrayed as being terrible ways to treat someone... until you're forced into dates by every other character in the game. Unlike the description states, you can't just be friends.

Personally, I was pretty surprised at the end of a game when a character who I had at multiple points told we were just friends, decided to pick me up and kiss me out of nowhere. One character's first conversation with you is about consent, and by the end despite me stating we were just friends multiple times, she was also kissing me. Also just a tiny bit strange when everyone's consoling me over a relationship I never actually asked for, the scripted events were weak at best and painful to click through at worst.

Frankly, some of this could be ignored if this was a pure dating game, but it's not. You can't present friendship as an option and then force the player to date characters to learn about them. It's barely even worth it by the end, given how surface level and shallow the majority of the cast are. Pocket (the cat), was basically the only character I could stand, because he just sort of meowed and was a cat the whole time, good kitty.

The gameplay in the roguelike sections was also clunky and unpleasant, but I don't play nearly as many rougelikes as I do dating sims so I'll leave that be.
 

lovingly latched-on homunculus
212 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
17.4 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
An interesting concept with charming characters and designs to match, but after beating the game and playing two more times to see if my choices have any impact to the story, it falls short.

For it being a dating simulator, the stories for each individual romantic interest are linear. What I mean by this is that no matter what choices you make in interacting with them, their story doesn’t change. You can reject a character’s advances and they will still try to make moves on you. This is not to talk ill of any of them as they each have their own unique charms that compels me to know more about them, but if I want to stay friends with someone or give consent to pursue them romantically, I’d like to explore those different outcomes.

I come into this game wondering if I, as the player, can dive into a story and change the world around me with the choices I’ve made while also creating deeper bonds with the people I come across on the way. I didn’t get any of that. The ending was shallow and lackluster. My relationships with the characters left me rather bitter and emotionally scarred (looking at Sunder who's the poster boy for the game's promotional material btw), and on top of this, it feels like me as the protagonist did not experience any actual growth. It was like I was put in a movie and forced to ride it through without any means to change its course.

The game warned about elements of stalking and emotional manipulation. These are integral parts of the story, they're triggering topics and I’m glad to see it. But I wasn’t emotionally prepared to see the level of those elements into play, it left me scarred and uncomfortable that’s for certain. I see the direction they were going and it’s a good concept, but the delivery hits home and not at all in a good way.

Perhaps if the game receives future content that adds more depth and writing to the story (perhaps even fix some of the romance’s personal storylines to cater to player needs and satisfaction such as branching plots in choices), then I’d be all for it. If you’re looking for a casual hook-up game with mindless dungeon crawling elements, go for it.

However if you’re looking to make meaningful connections with some hotties and explore a deep, rich story to boot, as it is right now, I cannot in good conscience recommend the game to anyone.
 

Zer0PM
0
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
26.8 hrs on record
Posted: 19 November, 2022
I have enjoyed playing this game for almost 30 hours and do not regret buying it, but unfortunately I would not recommend it to others.

I like the dungeon combat, the color palette, the fun outfits, the sprite art and the town background, and the general idea of people turning into weapons that you can wield. There is truly a lot about this game to like! It deserves the attention it has received, especially for its diverse cast.

For me, the writing was the weakest part of the game. The attempts to flesh out the premise—that people can turn into weapons—brought up world-building questions that I wouldn't have bothered with otherwise that weren't answered. I also didn't feel as connected to the love interests as I would have liked, which I believe stemmed mainly from their routes being static. Since I could barely affect my relationships with them, I felt like I was just being shuttled from scene to scene without any real stake in the outcome.

Also, I was unable to keep playing the Holmes route 

All this being said, I am looking forward to seeing what Kitfox Games comes out with in the future.
 

abhorsenwalker
0
2 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
5.4 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
I wish there was a 1-10 rating system rather than a yes/no system for rating. I'd give this game a firm 6.
The good:
The actual gameplay is incredibly fun. The dungeons are creative and super fun to go through. The weapons are unique and every single one feels unique and stylish. The enemy designs are great and character designs are great. The animations are fluid and the monsters are challenging and unique. The gameplay has the pacing and explorative vibe of Hades without being a clone in the slightest. The characters are fantastically diverse and all have interesting unique personalities. The voice acting is great. The crafting is fun and not irritating. There is a cat and it is fantastic.

The bad:
The game is excessively short. There are only two dungeons in the entire game. Even with the dating-sim conversations I burned through the game in about 5 hours and I felt like I was taking my time and exploring quite a bit. It felt like I was playing a quarter if not a 5th of a completed game. I don't think, though I may be wrong, that there's a way to see the gorgeous transformations again after the first time which is a tragedy. The plot doesn't try to build on the world it creates. If anything, it ignores the world it creates. The characters being weapons just pops up now and then but there doesn't seem to be anything bigger in the world. The writers clearly specialize in writing characters, not plots. You can date anyone you want and that's great, you can date everyone at once if you want! But because you get through the story so fast all that's left is going back and grinding the other characters' relationships which just feels poorly paced and takes you out of the flow of the game.

The following contains spoilers and one of my biggest complaints:

After really getting into the game and starting to fall in love with the characters I was suddenly hit with the biggest sting: Sunder. Sunder is the "face" character of the game, the guy on the cover page. The fact that you can't date him is awful. You go through his line and then at the end, out of nowhere, he just breaks up with you and ditches you. According to folks on Discord that's just it, that's the end of his line. There is no happy ending. This left me feeling MISERABLE and really triggered my depression. It felt like all the love and joy I'd put into the game was suddenly thrown back in my face. I've played enough "get broken up with" simulator in real life, it's not what I want in my dating sims. It came off as mean-spirited and insulting, especially since he was the only character in the game that I was attracted to (Isaac is a similar type but just too similar to me), so it left me feeling like I was specifically being punished for who I liked, which I also get enough of from games like Fire Emblem. It's fine to have bad endings, but no hope of a happy ending ruined the entire game for me and burned out any desire I had to experience the other characters' paths.

In Summary:

Boyfriend Dungeon has some FANTASTIC foundations and there is clearly a lot of love and heart behind it, but it's so painfully short and doesn't explore its world or social dynamics. The gameplay is fun but there's so little of it and the romance left me feeling miserable and depressed. It didn't feel like there was really a "story" the developers wanted to tell and the main story felt rushed and poorly managed. It is such a creative combination of dating sim and roguelike but sadly accomplishes neither because of its lack of content and unpleasant storytelling. I really labored over whether or not to upvote it or downvote it and ultimately I had to look at my feelings when I was done: Depressed and unfulfilled. It hurts me to downvote a game with such a beautifully diverse cast but I can't in good faith recommend it.
 

Azraphael
1
11 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.4 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
First, the positives. Very inclusive, (ace, aro, nb and poly friendly options and 2 enby love interests. Rarely ever see that kind of inclusion and ALL for it). The premise is interesting and the dungeon and bonding mechanics are hella fun. Loved the intro animations and the art looks good for the most part. Some of the faces seem a little off at times though. The crafting and outfits are all really well done. The game has lots of charm and I desperately wanted to love, but also has a lot of missed potential and things that can feel...lacking story content wise. I really hope devs consider adding more plot content for all the main love interest, but ESPECIALLY Sunder and Jonah.

My main beef is with Sunder who's basically a cheese grater for your emotions in the worst way possible. In short and without spoiling the details, he's a bad end only character. Tried two different playthroughs with the same result and as far as I know, no other players have found a good ending for him. I'll add more with a spoiler warning further down.

As an enby I was so happy with Rowan's character and that there was more than one enby romance option, even if Sawyer wasn't my type. Rowan was incredibly well done, but like the other love interests, their route felt too short. As an ace I was thrilled that sex was opitonal and not required for romance.

On the other hand, many of the romances felt very rushed and like there should have been more to them so much so it almost felt like a hookup focused game over a date sim. To be frank there's a lot that felt rushed or cut short to the point I feel the game's release should have been postponed a few months. There's only two dungeons with less than 15 levels each and they go by pretty quick. Didn't feel like there was enough time to flesh out the story and worldbuilding either which is a shame because I wanted to know more about the weapon people.

Spoilers for Sunder ahead.

Now for Sunder. Hoo boy, the man single-handedly soured the whole game for me. Everything else, I was willing to overlook til this point. Having one of the main love interests in a date sim exist only to break your heart in the most callous way possible with no options to discuss or address it or get a good ending is a very poor design decision imo. Especially since he was one of the main reasons I bought the game. If I wanted to simulate having my heart broken and reliving an extremely painful experience (charming older guy toying with my feelings and stringing a younger, more inexperienced me along as a way to pass the time), I wouldn't...be playing a date sim.

I felt extremely emotionally manipulated by Sunder only it was worse because he had spent so much time gaining my trust and trying to convince me he was worth giving a shot. I expected it from the antagonist, but again, NOT a main love interest in a date sim. Despite other characters warning you about him. I thought it was just the vampire thing keeping him from intimacy in the past, not...him not having his $h*t together as a human being.

If he was aromantic and wanted a queer platonic relationship with your character, I would've been fine with that. If he was poly? Would've been fine with that too. If he was both and just wanted a platonic, but loving relationship with you while sleeping with other people, I might've been fine with that too. I just would have liked the option to discuss it openly with him and explore it as an option together.. Not be strung along, jerked around, then dumped with no real explanation or closure.

As for Jonah. for the life of me I can't figure out how you're supposed to unlock his route. You meet him, he texts to say he won't be there the rest of the summer, but he feels you'll meet again real soon...except you don't. That's literally all I can say about Jonah which is too bad. All I can think is that maybe it was the devs way of hinting they'll release content for him soon?

Jessie also became extremely annoying because you couldn't say no to the pointless awkward dates with non love interests. The first one I get since it's essential to the plot, but the rest was just like "LEAVE ME ALONE AND LET ME DATE MY WEAPONS JESSIE." Even Jonah, is kind of forced on you by Jessie as a third wheel if you invite one of your own date's to an event later. For a game that has the sensitivity to ask about whether it's okay to send you texts from a character called Mom (which I was incredibly grateful for as I don't have a great relationship with mine) and brings up the importance of consent at multiple points, it's kind of jarring when you realize you can't opt out of or say no to Jessie about any of the dates he sets you up on.

Also gonna repeat what other's have stated about the content warning. It's not adequate as written. It makes it sound like you can opt out of the stalking and emotional manipulation or like their sort of in the background, but doesn't tell you it literally forces you to keep engaging with an incel, "nice guy" stalker type in order to progress the plot. I know it's a game and not real life, but I found it implausible that your character wouldn't just block this character's number. That said, the devs have announced they'll be updating the content warning to reflect this, so hopefully that's in place soon.

I feel like this game's release date should've been pushed back a bit and that there should be a good ending for Sunder, literally any content for Jonah and at least 10 heart levels and dates with each love interest,

I'm hoping devs release a future update or DLC with more story content as this game still has the potential to be incredible, but in it's current state, I can't quite bring myself to recommend it to others. The outifts are cute, but the game really doesn't need more of them and I would have been fine with half as many and no craftable racing game, if it meant more fleshed out romances or at least getting a positive end for Sunder. Currently you can date every character (save for Jonah) and nearly 100% this game in about 6 hours or so.
 

Caelanbug
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.1 hrs on record
Posted: 24 August, 2021
A real eye toward style, voice acting, and visuals, but the story and gameplay are disconnected, awkward, and lack any depth of substance.
 

AFoodTruck
319 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.7 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
Solid boyfriends/dating sim but the gameplay is sorely lacking. The game design seems to primarily focus on more stuff = harder. More enemies, more projectiles.. Honestly the last room of the first floor was harder than the 5th floor mini-boss, outside from the mini-boss just randomly chunking you for 3/4ths of your hp.

Also in the late game I had next to nothing to do with money. Spoiler alert: you won't be able to access Eric's shop at some point so you can't just buy a lot of the stuff that was available there. So that was kinda disappointing.

I feel it's marketing was more 'dungeon crawling with dating sim' but played way too much more like 'dating sim with dungeon crawling elements'.

I can recommend it, and I enjoyed my time with the story and dating and romance, but it left me wanting and disappointed.
 

Di (like key)
788 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 October, 2024
Interesting concept. It's a dating sim + roguelite dungeon crawler. I was pretty hooked on it for the first few hours but then
the novelty wore off.

There's 9 characters in total you can date. I find it slightly funny only 4 are males while the rest are 2 non-binary, 2 females, and 1 is an animal.
Each of them have their own story and personal problems you learn about while going on more dates with them. Some are interesting , others are alright. None of them really stood out to me though and I wasn't able to find myself taking a particular liking to any of them.

The gameplay is okay. Each of the datable characters can turn into different weapons with different skills. They get stronger as you form stronger bonds with them. Fighting is mostly just spam clicking though. There are other things, but you don't really need them cause normal attacks stagger enemies so just spam left click to win. The bosses were relatively easy. The final boss was an absolute disappointment. It was no challenge at all and I beat it first try.

Artstyle is unique and I kinda like it. Soundtrack is pretty good too.

Overall, meh I don't really recommend it. You're not really missing out on anything if you just ignore this game. Wait for a big sale if you want to try it.
 

Lewdguin
1,243 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2022
Pros:
-Music is banging. Been listening to the soundtrack on spotify.
-The character transformation animations are gorgeous
-They/them pronouns and same sex relationships
-Content warnings and permission to turn off texts from mom
-Dialogue made me laugh at times

Cons:
-NOT A DUNGEON CRAWLER. the dungeons are clunky and not fun. Do not buy if this is your main selling point.
-There's a crafting/gift mechanic but in my time playing I only got one recipe/gift. Kept getting prompts like "this is the part where you would give a gift if you had any" like cool thanks game maybe you should give me some gifts to offer. Just felt like I was missing out on content.
- Interactions made me personally uncomfortable. Obviously there's a content warning for this reason, but I do NOT appreciate the character that makes unwanted advances. He's also kinda sword-people racist.

All in all, if you're looking for a dating sim then this is that. It is not a good dungeon crawler, and one of the guys WILL leave you mid date to make out with another woman in an alleyway.
 

lilkatzz
384 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 10 December, 2021
This game is both a thumbs up and a thumbs down for me. Now this is my personal opinion. I find the love interests to be quite various for people to choose from. Also the graphics for what it is are great. The dungeons do have a challenge element. However i find after just playing it for 9hrs i have completed the whole game. So for me this is the thumbs down part. I wish there was more. More dungeons to explore. Just seems such an anti climatic ending really. Would have loved to seen a chapter 2 perhaps where the story could carry on one she returns again. Or take over a business and the story continues. Something. To be fair to the developers, there might be more to come in DLCs or updates. So i will wait and see. But for now. I wish it had follow on.
 

paiges_hope
160 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
(Obtained via Kickstarter) I came into this game really wanting to like it, but it's less of a dating sim than a casual hook-up simulator. Also, I thought people were exaggerating about the stalking content of this game... Honestly, that's the character type I would normally enjoy because that's just how I am with these games. But no, he's a totally-not-a-nazi incel type and I hate every second he's on screen or messaging me. Maybe I'll enjoy the other characters once I get past their initial one note intros, but Valeria is the only one I like so far and she spent the night at my apartment at one heart. I think my displeasure if just because I like dating sims for the drama and the slow build up and am not personally someone who enjoys one night flings with people, even in fiction. I'm sure other people will love it, but the relationship factor is not my jam.

I wish I could give it a neutral rating, honestly, because the art and music is great, and I like a lot about it. It's just the only time I've played a game like this and thought "I'm too old for this". Definitely not it's target demographic, which was not the feeling I got from it at any point in the Kickstarter.
 

Starwyvern
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: 20 August, 2021
I wanted this game to be a lot better because of the controversy around it.

Things that I personally experienced that I'm not nuts about:
- the combat system isn't particularly robust
- choices in your relationships don't really seem to matter
- you can't choose how the M/C feels about people so it feels a little restricted

Things I researched before deciding whether or not to stop playing but have not seen for myself.
- The game is apparently not complete. I would rather pay more for a complete game later. I'm personally not a fan of the installments model in games. Other people might not mind this though.
- Choices continue to not matter.
- I'm not nuts about the two nonbinary character designs as a nonbinary person. There's not a lot of representation for us in games like this. There's nothing wrong with people (esp other nonbinary people) liking the characters but nonbinary people tend to get perceived as either soft boi trans man lite or spooky witch enthusiasm trans woman lite a lot by cis people. I think if there were either more nonbinary and trans characters in the game it wouldn't feel so bad, but it just feels kind of weird for me.

- I think regarding the above point and also some reflecting I was doing on Seven's plot, I feel like the game is marketed as and tries to present itself as socially aware (the economist is interested in addressing inequality, a character who believes in a system that's a metaphor for racial purity is a villain, LGBTQ options etc), but it gets complicated when marketing these characters in game and out of game has to do with desirability. These characters being diverse is in someways a commodity to sell a product and I was expecting some commentary on that in game (especially with how NPCs treat Seven and the way white people interact with K-POP as a commodity), but felt like that ultimately didn't pull through. I was hoping that maybe the writing on a character like Sawyer would be teaching people not to fetishize nonbinary people as certain tropes, but what from I've researched it doesn't turn out that way.

In case the devs bother to read this I'm going to say some nice things as well because there's clearly a lot of love in this project and I don't want to trash it.
- I appreciate that the game has an ambitious concept for people who are not accustomed to this genre to maybe play more (I've played a decent amount of VNs in my life).
- the art and stylization looks great
- Jesse being bisexual slaps
- I want to date Noah so badly but I'm afraid of him being unemployed or fat being treated as a joke, and if he wants to resist capitalism and find his purpose through surfing and being kind to animals ♥♥♥♥ yes.
- side note: frankly I don't need my dating sims to be progressive. I play a lot of ♥♥♥♥♥♥ up and weird games. But if that's your goal you have to fully commit to it.
- back to compliments!! the break stops in certain levels that heal were a great mechanic and helped game play a lot
- the idea of combos is good, they're just a little too unchunkable memory wise to be practical rn! Great concept to mix up combat though.
- the monster design was very good and I enjoyed them
- the rest spots in the dungeon all slapped
 

leechlord
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
It is with a great deal of difficulty that I cannot recommend Boyfriend Dungeon.

1. Content lacking. There are only 2 dungeons, or dunj as the game constantly calls them, and an extremely tacked on and obvious final boss.
2. The combat is not very good. Do not get me wrong, the combat is not bad, but it feels so... uninspired. This may be a cause of "if you've seen one X you've seen them all" but all the while I was playing this game I kept thinking "Man I would sure love to be playing Hades instead" or "This kinda reminds me of Hades/Bastion but not as good"
3. The dating sim part. It's very very shallow and outside of like one person, Olivia, everybody automatically like you when you meet them. Some people are into that but it never feels like you or the characters are really getting to know one another. There is a real missed opportunity in this with the character Sawyer who reveals to the MC they recently became nonbinary and rather than this being something to talk about and grow the game instead goes "ha ha this character literally cannot cook lmao".

I do not know if this game will have post launch updates or if there are like Kickstarter backed goals that will get added or what the future holds for this game but as of the writing of this review it with a heavy heart that I cannot in good faith recommend Boyfriend Dungeon. HOWEVER the world building exists and is interesting enough that if expansions or a sequel are ever on the table I will be looking forward to that type of thing.
 

Earth, Wind & Flyer
6,838 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.1 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
In short, lacks content, and the only content there is happens to be shallow and lack any trace of difficulty.
 

Artemaz
658 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.9 hrs on record
Posted: 24 December, 2022
I expected more depth to the combat system and to the story.

I mean, it's an ok game for an hour or so before it gets a bit boring, the mix of the genres is interesting, but overall the game feels kinda shallow.
 

Draugemalf
303 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 August, 2021
Way too short for the price and the dates all feel rushed
 

AliceisRed
0
23 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 April, 2023
The base game is pretty good, complete with enjoyable writing, but the DLC is lackluster at best and the lack of any more than 20 hours of gameplay tops is disappointing. None of the additional characters are as well-written as the originals, and the sudden copious amounts of sex is jarring.
 

inkboobs
0
9 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
Interesting beginning and overall concepts, disappointing lack of dungeons and blink and you'll miss it combat progression, disgusting plot that you have to engage with, and a truly baffling ending leaving me feeling tense and disgusted.
Zakov's review says it better.

Watch some videos before buying, this game is likely not what you're expecting or looking for. I wish I could return it, and I may never back a game on Kickstarter again because of this game.
 

Lattice
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 16 November, 2022
Product received for free

It doesn't really do anything well. It is not a great dating sim, it's not a great hack and slack dungeon crawler, its graphics aren't great, the sound isn't great. It's trying to do too much and so not doing any of it.
 

Knightly Knave
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
Honestly if you want a happy ending to your game, don't play this... or at least don't romance Sunder aka the one they are mainly advertising with. Another Dream Daddy situation where no matter what choices you make, you can't get a happy ending. If you're like me, you actually play games for escapism, not to be rejected for playing the game. Just be warned. You either end up heartbroken or living in a delusional state where he didn't abuse you and steal your virginity.
 

hrothbroth
117 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 27 August, 2021
Product refunded

Was enjoying the story and characters. The actual dungeon crawling feels outdated given other entries in this series. I found the character to be too precisely mapped to 8 directions to be effective.

Big points for designing an antagonist that I actively despise, it's rare for me to have strong feelings toward video game characters.
 

reddar19
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
18.3 hrs on record
Posted: 25 August, 2021
I'd been looking forward to this game because the premise sounded fun and original, but I'm disappointed. Everything is just very shallow: the plot, the dialogue, the dunjs, the mock therapy sessions you seem to get from everyone and everything...
The writing and dialogue feel very disjointed (sometimes just plain bad) and your main character's personality is all over the place. Most of the characters *could* have been interesting, but again too shallow and their stories too disjointed to really care about. As if the makers started with a ton of great ideas and then just got bored of (or ran out of time/money) trying to realize them.
I liked the artwork most of the time, the occasional voice acting was ok, and I liked Pocket.
 

elrinde
128 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
This is a bullet hell game with little in the way of gameplay customisation, propped up by a barebones dating sim with a lack of actual varied dialogue choices, ranging from enthusiasm to teenage ennui and indifference. Dating is the usual pastiche of tired conversation options, affinity raising and wanton bribery.

The gameplay is passable if basic, the content is so intrinsically Californian that I feel that the game is two steps short of asking consent before dealing damage to you. The character creation is possibly a hidden social commentary on how despite all the options available to you and your identity, none of them actually have any practical value. Certainly subversive, but it can't carry the plot by itself.

I was hoping the content would at least be humorous, tongue-in-cheek and witty the way Monster Prom is, but this game currently reads more like a hormonal angst-fest with little in the way of plot (it has opt-in content warnings for people who are triggered by interactions with their mother, for goodness' sake). Perhaps that isn't entirely a bad thing, but I'm probably at an age where I find it a trifle tiresome. Did not live up to my expectations of something more in the vein of Hatoful Boyfriend (the pigeon dating sim).
 

Dar
573 products in account
1
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2023
idk man if i wanna get played by a toxic mess of a guy theres people i can call, i dont play these types of games for realism sunders route is just annoying...
 

Myo
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 3 January, 2023
Love the concept, but the weapons I encountered were just so gross. Hopefully later in the game there are potential partners who aren't trash.
 

The Office Troll
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2023
Bought the game because it advertised platonic dating options, but the story really seemed to force the romance angle. Felt uncomfortable.
 

Spiderspeaker
0
2 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 26 May, 2022
can’t believe I got “it’s not you, it’s me”-ed in a game

yeah ♥♥♥♥ u too talwar
 

adelikal
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.5 hrs on record
Posted: 16 December, 2021
The game is good, and its fun. But its too little content. 100% achievements in 6 hours. I think there was too much effort put into dialogues and not enough into actual gameplay.
 

Aschab
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 August, 2021
Let me start by saying I love this game. I love the characters, I love the dunj and I love the music. So it pains me to write that I can't recommend it because of one unacceptable aspect of it. Unavoidable Heartbreak. This is a dating sim, I know I can't speak for everyone but I don't play dating sims to get rejected by fictional characters. I did some digging and found it was NOT something I did, no matter what you do it ends poorly. (Unless you become Bella Swan and reject reality to cling to a fantasy and yet somehow Twilight IS the better love story by comparison.) I hope they change this I really really do but as it is I can't recommend this game, this is a dating sim not a rejection sim. 
 

beastmistress
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 4 February, 2023
Well. As far as realism goes. This game nails socialization. Being overwhelmed by text messages all coming in at the same time from different people. Having to keep track of a lot going on. Characters having real personalities with flaws and all just the right way to make you feel uncomfortable all over the place. Game was totally right to recommend taking breaks as needed- and I was only 48 minutes into the game before I needed one… as someone who usually binges games and books for hours at a time, I feel like that’s saying something. Even taking breaks, it was a bit too much. I kept struggling to figure out what to say to different characters while worrying I said the wrong thing- which is realistic as well but perhaps too realistic. Especially since sometimes the options are ‘be rude’ ‘be even ruder’ ‘agree to something you aren’t comfortable with’ in the dialogue options. Instant stress. The game is… kinda heavy. It’s not casual, mentally-emotionally speaking. It’s a lot. No, but, really. This triggers social exhaustion like crazy if you’re an introvert. That’s pretty rare for a videogame of any sort, even one that’s mostly an interactive novel. And the content warning isn’t really enough, I don’t think.
 

vspenguins
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2021
The concept of a shack'n'slash sounded interesting - with what looked like clear inspiration from Hades, I hoped that even if the writing wasn't great, the gameplay would be.

It kind of isn't. There's a screen for combos, all of which are massively worse and put you more at risk of just hammering left click, and the weapons are vastly unbalanced, with some outright being busted and superior (Glaive, Knuckles), and some just the rest being either okay (Dagger, Talwar), or just straight up terrible (Scythe, Lasersaber).

The music is an absolute banger, and hats off to the musicians.

The writing.. is very hit or miss. Some routes have some pretty funny writing and concepts (Sunder sending a selfie for one, or the entirety of Pockets friendship route), but a lot of is very unmemorable and not very personal, considering each character only has six scenes that can be grinded out in about ten minutes.

The main story writing also is massively offset with how much of a cliche trope that Eric is, and how desperate they are to try and make him redeemable in the end, despite what he did (and look up how many people wish he was a romanceable, when he's wrote to be entirely irredeemable *which was intentional, considering one of the devs have been quoted as saying they dated someone that helped influence Erics design*).

Nevermind the fact the game just ends after the second dungeon, despite very clearly seeing like the game is set up for another dungeon or two, makes the game finish very very quickly.

I got about 98% completion, with me missing a few crafting recipes as they drop randomly and the rates seem to be low, but the 'zines powers were never required, and the gifts were one use and weren't required by how you could max out a routes meter with a dunj run or two.

It's very iffy. If you want a very short, semi-feel good story with a alt right-esque stalker interrupting it every couple of minutes, get it - but i'd wait for a sale or for them to drop the missing content that is supposedly coming over time.
 

TKV
3,361 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 April, 2022
If you like dating sims, it's probably good. If you like dungeon crawls, it's not great. Mostly it's just too short.

I do really appreciate that the game has trigger warnings at the beginning. The character chibi is indeterminate sex and you can choose your pronouns without affecting gameplay. Maybe that's normal for dating sims.

I would have preferred more women & enbies to date, but Boyfriend is in the title and it delivered on that. Also there's a cat; 12/10 on the cat.
 

godnoble
193 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.3 hrs on record
Posted: 22 January, 2023
I'm upset that I didn't get a normal root with Holmes. I DID NOT CALL "STOP WORD SYNTAX", it's sad that the only female character that I sympathized with was merged like that.
I hope the developers hear this and fix this root. I would give positive feedback only for the fact that I was beaten with a whip and for an awesome ginger cat, but you know that this is not enough?
 

HORNY MOMMY
601 products in account
2
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 21 October, 2021
So originally I wish-listed this sucker for lonely b!#% reasons. And eagerly waited while desperately looking for other games to fill the void.

Trying the game out after all the waiting was as fulfilling as getting a penny trick or treating as a kid. (Seriously Screw people that do that!) Characters and dates

The art (janky in places) and animation is nice but I couldn't care less how pretty something when character development doesn't exit.

I guess if you have time to kill and money to burn this might be a reasonable purchase but there are so many visual novels out there you can get (especially on those juicy sales) that'll give you hours upon hours of meaningful, memorable content and they are often pretty too. It's harder to find LGBTQ+ friendly polished work but that doesn't mean you should settle for mediocre.

Oh about the stalker warning. It's a topic that's meant to be uncomfortable. I don't mind tense and traumatic experiences in a game/media (Psychological thriller/horror manga and Berserk fan enters chat) but if you dislike that sort of thing it's an unavoidable part of the story. And your character deals with it and typical fashion for them in almost every situation they are in - doormat. No matter what your illusion of choice is you often don't do much.

I had a rough time relating to the mc and immersing myself. That's the reason I play a game where I can name my character. I enjoy placing myself in their shoes and I hoped there would be a variety to our options. Usually are shoehorned into what the story wants you to do. You have the illusion of choice. Make a choice that's wildly different from what the story wants - nope not allowed.

Want characters to back off because you are uninterested? They'll nod, smile and keep hitting on you. I dabble in the video game harem lifestyle so while I'm cool with hoarding a bunch of romantic interests like Pokemon I send off into Mortal Kombat it may not be your cup of tea. You'll feel like constantly bonking every mofo that bats their eyes at you.

Combat is brain-dead. I love the overcoming your insecurities aspect of the dunji but it's so bland. You have 2 whole dunjis...so if you wanted more crawling in your dungeon get your fix elsewhere.

Characters are very one-note, cliche and flat. I tried to force myself to play more (About 5hrs) with the Xbox pass but just couldn't.

If you're looking for half-assed fan-fiction quality of depth then fine get this on a heavy discount or keep an eye out for news. Apparently there will be another character coming in but if it's in the same boring formula, no more dunji's are added with the same lack of lore and no actual CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT/DATES ...this stays refunded and a distant meh memory.
 

Chantelle
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
Boys :)

Which is good. But as an ace person in a loving relationship I reeeeeally don't appreciate the "ace rep" being having a cat... it feels so genuinely insulting
 

Transgender Magical Girl
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 21 January
Like the concept of this game but the controls feel super clunky and none of the characters are likable.
 

emilyegg
292 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 October, 2023
I like the general idea of this game, just not enough to recommend it, especially at the price point. I didn't understand the pacing, I felt like I was being rushed through and in the end the characters barely mattered. The gameplay was slightly clunky and very button-mashy.
The main story line was very predictable and kind of annoying. The text messages throughout were also painstakingly slow and tedious to click through.
I really enjoyed the dungeons and weapon ranking. The music was cool and I liked the partial voice acting and artwork.
I finished this game in one sitting and did have fun with it for what it was. I could find myself replaying it in the future, but not anytime soon.
 

blueline
412 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
5.9 hrs on record
Posted: 21 December, 2024
if youve played any recent topdown roguelike? Dont really both unless the characters super interest you.
 

Lilimai
956 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.2 hrs on record
Posted: 18 September, 2023
Gameplay great, story is ehhh.
If you're looking for a roguelite, great. If you're looking for romance, this game is not great on that front.
The relationships don't feel well developed at all and I ended up finding them more uncomfortable than anything by the end.
Maybe I just don't understand when people go all in on a relationship in less than 2 months.
The story, visuals, and soundtrack are great but I just don't think this game works as the dating sim it's marketed as.
 

Xuebii
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
I wanted to like this game. I enjoy dungeon crawlers and dating sims as well. However, this game fails in both of those things. The dating part is on rails and there isn't much wiggle room in conversation options. The dungeon crawling is EXTREMELY basic, which would be a good starting ground if they were going to be putting out more content for the game, which doesn't seem like that is going to happen.
 

Enaio
248 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 February, 2022
I feel somewhat bad about not recommending this, but I really did not enjoy this game. They tried to do something unique and I really give them props for that. But as far as dating sims go, this is definitely one of the worst high quality ones I've tried.

I mostly wanted to try this because of the dungeon crawling/leveling aspect of it. But I beat the game in 4 hours and the dungeons were definitely the worst part of the game. I found them to be kind of grindy, repetitious, unchallenging, and unrewarding.

This could have been okay to me if the writing quality of the story was at all halfway decent. I totally understand that female-oriented romance games (otomes and the like) are rife with problematic, dangerous fetishizations. Abuse isn't sexy- I totally get that and I think it needs to be addressed, too. But with a romance-style game, how the hell can anyone be romantically attracted to these flat, unengaging people who are all in therapy and all obsessed with getting your consent to speak with you in triplicate? The constant like, "Are you mentally okay with me speaking to you right now?" through all the characters is exhausting.

The game asked for my consent to have a mom character. I mean, it's just way too on the other side of consent that it feels like it's not a romance game. Nothing makes me want to date a character more than excessive checking in on my mental health like I'm a five year old. It's just overbearing. And boring. I beat it once in 4 hours and severely disliked any other character besides seven, so I really don't have the inclination to play it again.

Your viable boyfriend options are:
1. A girl (boyfriend...?)
2. A cat (wtf)
3. A non-binary person who looks like they're 12 years old and sounds/acts like they're 12 years old (this is a little problematic, if you ask me)
4. A non-binary person you won't even discover unless you look at the wiki.
5. A guy who is religious and very clearly wants you to have kids and hates video games (very fun and sexy to people playing a video game dating sim...)
6. A party guy that literally everyone and your mom warns you to "stay away from" and then if you ignore them, you are rewarded with him basically just dumping you anyway.
7. A k-pop idol who is LITERALLY THE ONLY ONE WHO STANDS UP FOR YOU AND IS INTERESTED IN A NORMAL RELATIONSHIP. (You know, except you don't get to be with him in the end if you pick him anyway cuz he's k-pop man)

Like where is the payoff?

I think the art's unique and the music is cool. I just didn't really like the game.
 

RogueLyfe
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2022
Neat game. Combat is simple and not challenging. Movement is too clunky to be fun, hit boxes feel inconsistent.
Writing wise it's meant to be directed at all but almost all outfits are feminine and and potential dates masculine. It's all very American Politicly Correct. Which makes it hard for me (NonBinary and not american) to connect.
 

Shoon
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.0 hrs on record
Posted: 11 August, 2021
Positive Initial Review, 70 minutes in: YES! YES! YES! THIS IS SO GOOD!

Current Review:
The game is too short, too filled with bugs, and frankly outright creepy at points. Probably not worth a buy unless it is on sale.
 

Rain
348 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 29 January, 2022
I´m kind of hate-playing it now, which is a sign that it´s hard to form an opinion.

For a game called "Boyfriend Dungeon" I expected a whole different level of cringe - raunchy and thirsty. What you get instead is overly woke "let´s superficially tackle all the modern social issues at once" sort of cringe.

The characters are quite unlikable and annoying, but the game makes you be extremely nice to everyone. So the romance factor is non-existent.

The dungeoning is extremely repetitive (but kinda fun).

I got the feeling the game tries to be to many things at once and ended up being meh on every front. And it´s disappointing, cause the art, soundtrack and overall idea are cool, the writing kills it for me though.
 

scheneia
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
Not Recommended, with the caveat that a lot of this is personal.

This was a hard choice because most of the reason I didn't enjoy this game is personal taste. It's very earnest. The aesthetic is lovely but not my style. The characters aren't my type, but they seem sweet enough with a few exceptions. The gameplay doesn't work for me, the love interests don't work for me, and the entire subplot with Isaac is nearly enough to make this a not recommend, why have multiple OELVN developers thought that 'subplot with uncomfortably realistic creepy dude' is a plot we need?

Also, while the game tells you that you can just go on platonic dates, this does not stop anyone from framing it as romantic or flirting with you. This meant that a love interest I didn't particularly like started sexting me after I told him to cool it with the flirting.

This is a game that I could definitely see a lot of people enjoying, it just doesn't work for me, and coupling that with the uncomfortable Isaac plot mess and the misleading relationship descriptions it's a not recommended, though a lot of it is just my romantic taste.
 

angry dooting
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2021
Loved the gameplay, every single datable character felt so unlikable and there is one datable character who is just an incel that other characters assure you 'is a good guy at heart' bleh.
 

carooly11
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 31 August, 2021
Meh
 

Rosi
1,098 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.4 hrs on record
Posted: 27 September, 2022
The story is a fanfic for a 7th grade grade girl, the combat feels slow and fast at the same time
 

Quilp
351 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
Gameplay gets a boring and repetitive quickly. Most of the characters are uninteresting, and the characters who are interesting are underdeveloped. It's not a great or otherwise standout game. I really wanted to like this game but it just wasn't all that enjoyable after the initial charm wore off.
 

Chamomile
297 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.8 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2021
I was one of the Kickstarter backers, and they did us really dirty. There's are two weapons that were fully funded (A Hammerbabe and Axebro) and should of been in the game at release. One of which is the Surfer Axe guy who clearly was coded to be in the game, has UI and sprites, but the character just abruptly leaves instead of staying in the game. So they took peoples money saying you could use Jonah, but just gave him a little cameo instead. They took our money, went dark for some time, and then cut content before release.

The writing in this game is pretty bad, characters are as deep as puddles. Everything is about your feelings and magic and other crap. You can sum up the essence of every character with one sentence. The main character is a total loser that can't talk to an attractive person without freaking out, their cousin is obsessed with wing-manning us, Isaac has daddy issues and does not want to run his Conservative dads company, Sunder is a lazy ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ vampire, Valeria is your standard street kid artist from the barrios, Seven is whiny famous person that does not like being famous, the only regular smith in town is a human supremecist, etc. The problem is that every datable character is either a horrible person or a walking stereotype. As mentioned, there is a smithy character who exists to act racist towards weapon people so that you might be tricked into liking them more.

This game can be summed up as "Trying to be Hades and failing" in that it really wants to be Hades but will never get there. BFD want's to do the same thing, where sexy characters explore a randomized dungeon to grow deeper relationships. The problem is that the modern setting of Verona Beach legit makes no sense, there are places in town that turn your worst fear into monsters that can kill you, this is a major plot point. WHERE IS THE NATIONAL GUARD, WHERE ARE THE COPS!? The game never addresses what weapon-people are, why they can do it, and why/where Verona Beach is like it is.

The aformentioned monster place is... THE MALL AND NIGHTCLUB? So you are telling me that all of the social hotspots in this city feed on your dark emotions and breed monsters? No seriously where are the freaking cops. The other thing is that there's no real call to action, you just randomly start finding weapons down in the Dunj, who then hit you up for dates the second they leave the screen. Also, I refuse to interact with any person that calls it "The Dunj" like fighting monsters in bloody combat is some kind of quirky sexy modern activity.

Now let's talk about the REAL reason I am not suggesting this game: It's too easy. Every dungeon run gives you XP depending on how many floors and monsters you fought. Even though the game offers you elevators to start deeper down THIS IS A TRAP. Because the game puts so much weight behind XP and leveling up, it behooves you to just start from the bottom every time to rack up fat XP with almost zero danger behind it. This also allows you to power through the XP you require to level up your weapons... I mean living people who we are dating.... and thus be able to do a dungeon run, do everybodies events, then power back down there. There is an your face gameyness here that drains any fun or romance out of it.

In general this was an indie attempt to copy off another indie's homework, and it failed.
 

Necroscourge
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 9 September, 2023
I could go on at length, but the short of it:

This game has weird (non-existent) ideas around player consent, boring ideas about queerness, and a general ineptitude when it comes to making characters feel compelling or significant. Also no world continuity in the clumsy attempt to balance stresses from capitalism with...being a weapon in a dungeon?

Generally shoddy and unethical writing.
 

Cynosure
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 23 February, 2023
Disappointing. What I saw made it look like a light hearted comedic type of game but it seems to be trying to take itself seriously. And then I started getting forced into dates with people who were immediately obnoxiously annoying and creepy and why on earth would I want to play this?
 

agatha
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.3 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2023
The game exists purely for ♥♥♥♥ and giggles to play one fast run and get bullied by your steam friendlist for at least one day. As a game it feels like atrocious experience.

Story is something I can describe as wet teenage fantasy, where I feel like I have no option but to charm everyone around me. Not too serious, but it may feel uncomfortable.

Positive: you can date weapons.
Negative: they have an ability to transform into humans, what a shame.

Cat is the best tho.
 

MooneRech
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
5.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 April, 2023
Even if this game was free, playing this game isn't worth the time spent on it.
 

Mitch
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
4.9 hrs on record
Posted: 12 May, 2023
Not very good, just get it on sale.
 

hey
0
3 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 9 December, 2021
Too many girls and whatevers in that BOYfriend dungeon.. The cat is cool, though.
Game crashes every time when activating SNAZZ.
 

squirrel
356 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 January, 2022
There's an abusive mfer and your cousin in the game and you can date NEITHER.
I went with the blue asian but I wish I could have dated one of the two blonde guys instead.

There are only three men you can romance, in total, which is ridiculous.
 

Bajun
1,088 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
23.5 hrs on record
Posted: 3 March, 2024
I 100% the game to see what was all up with it. I saw this game's hype and I do not trust game hype so I got it like I do with nearly everything, like 10 years after no one talks about it anymore. It took a long while to think about this game and what I thought about it. I do not like to not recommend games, but this one had me pet peeved in too many places.

If you know me why the thumb down? Well if you know me let's get on with the first one. It's the cat. It's always the cat.

I was excited with Pocket, the cat route.

Pocket actually is not a stray you adopt. He is someone else's outdoor cat. And if you tell his guardian that he should not let him outdoor as Pocket's route is about violent conflict with other cats, he says he cannot do that because it is not natural.
Which is baffling considering a moment ago you interrupted a conflict with another cat where they would clearly potential get really hurt.
And having such a big issue with pet guardian neglect in a game that is like we are safe and diverse??? It pissed me off. And if someone is like the game is not for you well the route is here and I was here for the cat route.
The game also mention once Pocket arguing with a crow over eating a prey. And again that is the thing. Outdoor preys carry diseases for cats. If your cat goes outdoor, they can get attacked, even more if they are in a big city like in the game. Cats lifespan significantly lower if you let them outdoor unsupervised and their stress increase so much. People antropomorphize cats so easily they think oh he really is interested in the outdoor I need to let him out, when the answer is much more complex than that.

f you are like my apartment is too small or I do not have time to walk my cat with a harness then??? Don't have a cat??? It is like having too small a fish tank for your fish who is suffering in this inadequate environment and shrugging you cannot do anything about it. As far as I know, Pocket's guardian also does not take care of him, he says he is always at work.

Let me have Pocket and give him a good home and have long walks with him where he is safe.

Ok that is it for my main route, now, the rest.

This game was really uncomfortably thirsty for me. I've seen praise on the ace route but. Oof. It is still uncomfortably allosexual. It really shoves it on you, I do not know what to say. It is a vibe? A writing thing? I have played plenty of allosexual visual novels and none of them made me as uncomfortable on the advances of characters as this one. They are so aggressive with them, and even if, as the player, you have the option to go no, it is still in your face, the assumption that you are here to kiss and sleep. It feels like either not understanding asexual experience properly and thinking you are being diverse with it or this game is made out of frustration of dating sim that takes it too slow.

The game also  . I really do not like when games do this in this particular way. The particular way in a HA! Gotcha! Actually this relationship is toxic and should not happen. When dating sim plots always bend themselves to have fulfilling romantic relationships, it feels really condescending of the writers to make one route where it does not happen no matter how time pass, like they are smarter than their players... but the players bought a dating sim called BOYFRIEND DUNGEON? You cannot call them out on wanting a relationship with this archetype of a character and be like sikes you are dumb for thinking this is a good relationship think on it??? It is like buying a R-rated game and as they go in the bedroom they go HA pornography is the demon or something. What the ♥♥♥♥?? Apologize.

Then the roguelike... it is bad. It is so barebone. It is university gamejam level of gameplay loop and it is not deeper than that. It is serviceable for players who are in for the dating sim... but then because the roguelike aspect is there, the dating sim events are actually so barebone. Like 2 minutes small talk and they really do not go anywhere. The characters feel like piece of meat to find hot (which if you are not allosexual like me it is just pure confusion), and make me think that the entire hype on those characters are either coping projection or the hype of their crowdfunding coping on the lack of actual content. Those characters do not feel like people AT ALL. The art is nice, but the voice acting and writing do not feel good.

The characters have such generic issues, the game struggle so much with making those characters a hot fantasy to date and have them be grounded diverse individuals. I say this because it tilts so much on being actually problematic but then I feel like it wants to subvert this ethnic stereotype... but no it does not work???

I am east asian. There's Seven, a K-pop idol. Which is also the most popular route taken by players according to trophy achievements. Seven's route is basically how under his idol persona he is a normal guy who cares about his music which is. So.
I do not know the developers ethnicity and such so I am just going to say this derogatorily it really sounds like white girl kpop fan dreams of dating her kpop idol and so make him approachable.
But then again this is an insanely problematic take on the archetype. Entertainment industry individuals are... not like that. At all. They are under insane pressure which the second the cameras are off comes out as insanely destructive mental health issues, often taken out on a partner which are oftentimes arranged. The idol industry is extremely toxic, and competitive, it is not just a chill indie artist route those are nepotism children groomed from the day they were almost born and given everything they want at all time to sell a dream, and they are GOOD at it. This is really me paraphrasing the entirety of it but to read Seven's route was INSANE and I could not believe that a visual novel that was sold to me as "well rounded" and "diverse" would put on with that.

And this is just me on my own experience, but other characters just scream red flag white girl writing for me. Hypersexualized south asian man? Black excellence capitalist black man??? And does the story subvert those at least... NO????

Whitewashed audience will eat that up through feeling good about the diversity or through sheer media projection but this is not a good game.

Even with flaws I usually give good faith indie games a thumbs up but this one was just too much for me. I would recommend if you are reading this to play something else like ValiDate if you are in for the diversity and if you are here for hotness, hell, any sexy eastern dating sim game will do.
 

✨Mao Meo
419 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
Absolute trash. The writing is garbage, it consistently freezes at the same point in the tutorial dungeon, and it wants me to both make my own character and fit into a role they've already designed. An obnoxious family and a bunch of random ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ insecurities are shoved down my throat in an extremely hamfisted, cachanded, and unnatural way. No one talks in an organic way. The developers seem to think that everyone has the same hangups as them, and are projecting hardcore. If you want to have a game about fighting inner insecurities and fears in monster form, either put me into a (well-written) character that has those issues, or let them be determined by the player. Hopefully in a way a bit more organic than a personality test, but even that would be something. I was looking forward to this, and it's just sooooo baaaad. Maybe it improves after the ten minute mark, but when I can't access anything after that, I'll never know.

Update: got the stupid game working again. It does not get better. It gets worse. I hate every single character, and I'm not allowed to tell any of them to ♥♥♥♥ off. In fact, some of the extremely limited dialogue options don't even let me use them. Everything is forced on me, I have no real choices in a game ostensibly at least somewhat about that. I don't get to define who my own character is beyond name and appearance. No one will shut up or leave me alone, and I can't even be rude to them. I am NEVER playing this ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ game again. I don't understand why it's so ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ popular. There's no subtlety to anything, it's all clumsy garbage that never ends. I HATE it. No one has a shred of media literacy, do they? Oh, look at the hot guys (except our ugly, annoying cousin), but they're all written horribly, and no matter what I say they say more or less the same thing. GARBAGE. DO NOT BUY.
 

Kitsune_9_tails
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2021
Product refunded

I followed the development of this game for a while and had been looking forward to it. But the game really wasn't what I expected. I found a lot of the characters to be unpleasant or unsettling. In another game that would be great, but not in a dating sim. I was pretty disappointed, but at least I was able to get a refund via Steam easily.
 

Skogga
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
34.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 November, 2023
I got all the achievements. and 100 percented it. Gotta be honest this game sucks. The rouge like portion of the game feels like a ♥♥♥♥♥♥ mobile game when they could have something as fleshed out as Hades. (If you like what u see game play wise, just go play Hades). The dating part is ok for the few likable characters. Like Isaac for instance. meanwhile you have the only chick of the game being a full on graffiti criminal.

Gameplay: go play 

Cute dating sim aspect. idk go play this underated gem: 
 

BlüF
482 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.2 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2021
Y'all should probably mention incest in your little trigger warning in the beginning of the game, getting that suddenly dropped on you by Valeria was really screwed up. You should specifically mention incest in the warning, thank you.
 

Fatal_Foxtrot252
48 products in account
1
2 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 5 January, 2023
Product received for free

My mother got me this for my birthday and i am so angry at this game. The peepee grew so big when i played this and it made me so upset. I Hate this game. I kept telling myself "this ISNT hot, its NOT sexy." yet my ♥♥♥♥ kept growing. UGH I HATE IT. its SO SEXY. After twenty minutes a white viscous liquid shot from my wee wee. It got all over my computer. Everywhere !!
 

Timoti
0
11 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 1 September, 2021
I'm a queer trans femme, and my problem with how they handled everything is this: The content warning that was there before said it "may" contain references to stalking. It "may"?? *You* made the game but you aren't sure if it does or not?? And I guess their response was "well other developers don't do good content warnings so why should we? people just want to hate queer people". No, people just want to be properly informed, and I especially expect other queer people to know to do better. When I Kickstarted the game, I had assumed it was going to be a happy game where you go on fun dates, instead it's what it is now. Even Sunder is a creep that you can't say no to, so I just avoided his storyline. They can make a game about dating ♥♥♥♥♥♥ people without consent if they want to, but if I had known at the start that it wasn't going to feel like a safe game to play as someone who's been abused, I wouldn't have Kickstarted it. There was nothing on the Kickstarter page that mentioned anything about themes of abuse. And the store page as of right now makes no mention of the abuse content at all, even though I know Steam has a way to put warnings in the bottom part of the store page. All that makes me wonder if they wanted to hide that part of the game from people. I'm so angry with how awfully they handled everything that I permanently removed the game from my account.

And for the combat, I only played a little bit because it was boring, not nearly as enjoyable as Hades, and I kept dying so quickly that I felt like I wouldn't be able to make any progress through the dungeon.
 

Haze System
470 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2022
Product received for free

Gag gift from a friend after I said I would play any game... I am not their demographic.
 

Chaydith
0
3 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2021
Not good
 

Empyrean Asura
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 18 April, 2022
This game is ♥♥♥♥, and this is why:
1- it's good if you're confused in term of attractions. Like, I know I like men, and the game forcing me to date women is pointless, there is never an option to say "thx gworl but i like men so back off now thx" and it's extremely annoying.
2- dialogs are super cringe and badly written and characters are extremely dumb and don't have a very developped "psyche" let's say... they never make senses or are logic at all. Who is the 13 years old that wrote that ?
3- character designs are amazing but environment are always disgusting and bland... so this is hyper ♥♥♥♥♥♥ too, also our character has no real good design and is ♥♥♥♥♥♥ looking
4- Gameplay is a void. It's just big hit, small hit, two hit combos, it's super ♥♥♥♥♥♥ not challenging boring and useless af.

Don't buy this unless you are sexually/romantically confused, if you're confused yay go for it....
 

Arthel
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 18 July, 2024
I was super intrigued by this. Dating your weapons? I'm down! But turns out the more I stared at the character art the clunkier or blander it felt and the more the designs bothered me. Really wanted to try dating a few specific characters, but the game play is so excruciatingly boring I'm probably never going back to this game to even get the chance to meet them.

Everything about this feels very laid out as in: this is your path and that's all you get. Choices matter. Do they though? Feels like a pretty linear VN to me.

Ugh, the game being so boring really frustrates me. Disappointing and a waste of money.
 

Kienwynn
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 19 January, 2024
Ok, this is a pretty mixed review, leaning to No.

I like the artstyle, really like the music (didn't find it tiring at all, actually enjoyed it), and loved the dungeon mechanics.

The other part, the boyfriend part...oh boy.

Mostly what I don't like about this game is that it does not have any consequences, neither on the dungeon, not on the relationships. And it's fine, the problem is that it makes it bland. That the same weapons tell you it's ok to faint, like well, the monsters that are hunting you will wait for the ambulance to pick you up.

The boyfriend part? Does not matter if you are out with 500 people or 1, does not matter if you tell hey I want to be friends, you can have it sleeping at your side in 0.01 seconds, There is no challenge on any of the two fronts. The other thing are the gifts, Dragon Age Origins style.

In the end, I liked it, but not enough to finish it, it seemed bland to me.

(And I really respect the dev, been following the whole process of the game and really wanted to like it)
 

yosoyines
735 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2023
1/10 got as a filler bundle game
gameplay wise its meh
 

VahidSlayerOfAll
4,474 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
18.7 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March
My honest review is that I am disappointed but still had some fun.

I have had my eyes on this game for a while and waiting for a sale to finally get this game, I LOVE vn's and dating sims, it my favorite thing to play to relax and chill. However, I am glad I got this on sale rather than buying it at full price (which I can't do a lot bec I am on a strict spending limit).

The sounds are great, music is my most favorite thing about this game, character design is on point, and the voice actors are amazing choices for their characters. I did enjoy the gameplay part, it was a little tricky on heavy weapons, but I don't know if that's truly the game fault or my own, so I can't put that down, but the rest was easy and simple enough to get through with some difficulties to keep me going back. And being poly is nice and the options to be friends or even to just date one of the weapons is something I love in a dating sim bec I want to see all the characters and enjoy having the options.

Now for some problems I have.
The story was not the best in my opinion, for how it ended, the lead-up to the final battle was clunky, and I would have liked a more solid ground for it, it was not at all what I was hoping for and with a few minor tweaks, I could see it improving the game, like having the option to stay and if choosing to go then a better ending then what we got. fix a few lines here and there for some characters. The Eric part of the whole thing I felt more annoyed than anything. Also, making the hats stand out more of what their purpose is, I legit went through the whole game, and until I got to the last dungeon, I didn't know there was a reason for them, I played 18 hours yall.

otherwise, it a decent game to play, I did have some fun, and it was silly too. I would recommend this if you get this on sale and don't mind some quirks. I enjoyed my time, but still wished for a little something more that would make me come back to play besides finishing up achievements.
 

Sluggy
75 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.2 hrs on record
Posted: 25 July, 2024
Good for people who enjoy visual novels and dating sims, but not dungeon crawlers. I ended up wishing there was a hard mode pretty early on in my first playthrough, and I NEVER play on hard mode, so that tells you something about the difficulty curve of the combat. Still, it was fun enough for what it was. That racing mini game was pure evil though
 

summmerteeth
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 3 March, 2024
Aside from finding out my demi-sexual butt is having difficulty handling a dating sim...

...the combat starts out much, much more difficult than Supergiant Games' Hades. At the start, I have constitution of a wet tissue, and enemies and projectile move faster than I can reasonably react - so much so that I'm not sure whether the first "ambush" after meeting Sunder in the tutorial was supposed to be a near-impossible "meant to lose" situation, or I just suck so much.
 

Dragomok
180 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2023
The dating part is alright, the combat is boring tho
 

Jimi
415 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 15 September, 2021
Product refunded

While the dating portion of the game was well fleshed-out and well written, the combat segments were lacking and both felt and looked amateurish.
 

Sceryloaw
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
7.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
Love what I've gotten to play, but after the first time playing it, it no longer launches. So currently, I cannot recommend as I cannot play it.
 

Sweetchibic
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2023
It's fine. If you're looking for a gimmick-y dating game, this works well enough. Problem is, the dungeon-crawler aspects are definitely lacking and feel like an afterthought. The gameplay just isn't tight enough to work well.
 

Joy (Gamer) (Real)
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
16.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 May, 2023
I wish for steam netural, is not bad but def is not good.
Ok the game is ok ,the weapons are good, the story and romances are meh , is a bit buggy and at some point everything is just grind.
A ttrpg "dlc" is not support/bugfixes/new content.
 

Vera♡
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2021
TLDR; Pacing is wack and dating is rough. This game could be so much more.

This game is like a rollercoaster that ends at the top of the first hill. The amount of content is incredibly small for a game that feels like it should be so intensely wide open. The gameplay is fun and addictive, the scale of challenge is enticing, but before you've even gotten the hang of it, the ending is in sight. Your summer is over in the time it takes to complete a game that should be half or a quarter of this scale.

Additionally, there is an unpolished feeling to the dating sim portion. Your choices can feel as though they contradict each other, and playing organically can create awkward situations that you feel you can't back out of (monogamous characters telling you that they ARE monogamous, at a point where it's too late to mention that you aren't; wanting to know a character deeper than friendship but being unable to after a certain point).

Also, your reactions can feel railroaded (yes/hard yes/soft yes type moments) or stunted (being able to accept or be sad, but not angry or ask why something is happening).

Overall, while I really wanted to get into this game, it resisted me, right after it got my attention. It's hard to not feel jaded about that kind of thing. That being said, if patches and content expansion are in the works, I would give it a second shot-- the gameplay is really fun, after all!-- but for now, I feel let down.

 

flaky sea salt
193 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 7 September, 2021
This one was tough to not recommend.

I went into this wanting everything from it. The concept was amazing and, appropriately, the boys were hot. However, what lied underneath the hype was not only far more restrained than I thought it'd be, but not presented nearly as well as I think it needed to be.

Characters are written to spoil far too much about themselves so early on and so bluntly, there's an inability to dynamically connect or disconnect romantically with said characters and with this human-weapon hybrid/dungeon-crawling world being fed to you so inexplicably, neither my boyf of choice or such an odd slice of life could get me to gel with much of the experience. I've seen games that don't even focus on their stories have competent lore justifying, so to speak, their premise. So, it's criminal to have something as story-driven as this falter where it was most important.

Also, the thematic elements are pretty flimsy, with the final push through the whopping TWO dungeons dropping all pretenses of attempted "subtlety". Nevermind the actual ending.

Speaking of dungeons, the crawling through of them is pretty shallow. You'll be using mostly the same 3-button combos (fast or heavy attack, depending on certain enemies or groups of enemies) and plowing through the same enemies which will usually only increase in damage, size, and/or bullet spread. It's not until you butt heads against the second "dunj" that SOME enemies are actually different.

But, with that said, the game has its novelty. And, as characters get fleshed out, the writing does occasionally improve. Seven was my favorite, with moments during his development that did genuinely touch me. The game's scope, though, doesn't allow these stories to shine like they could. This was clearly intended to be a bigger project during the pre-production phases and I think it could've evolved into a very well-rounded, niche, awesome time given another year or more of development.

As a Kickstarter-funded project, there's a better game owed to those who put up those funds IMO.

I hate to say it, but this game's best quality is its very CHVRCHES-esque theme tune and that it got me into its singer.
 

SeymourDemonica
1,370 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.9 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2021
I did enjoy the game despite my problems with it. My main problem with the game is the Protagonist is a major jerk, from the first meeting with Eric your Protagonist seems to dislike him for some reason and just *will not* treat him with civility, courtesy or kindness... My next problem is that the game is far too short, and my last problem is that Eric is not a romance T_T.

/RANT
I decided to check this game out after the "controversy" and I discovered that I had absolutely no problem with it that people were "all in uproar" about lol XD. Maybe because I thought Eric was treated entirely unfairly from the very beginning of the game by our Protagonist. I don't think Eric is a stalker like the game is trying to write him as, his advances were never unwanted for me. I was only upset that not once in the game could I ever just have a friendly conversation with him, the writers are dead set on making our Protagonist hate him. WHY?! Why do you want us to hate him writers?! I felt like I was resigned to romance the shirtless wonder instead of romancing Eric.
/RANT

Anyway, I read that the dev team is planning on additional content for this game, so I want to recommend it so you can support the game and the team for that content <3 ^^.

If you want to love Eric like I do, watch the BBC Pride and Prejudice and imagine having a conversation with him cause the game won't let you have any civil conversation with him... EDIT: Also Sense and Sensibility, Downtown Abbey, Frankenstein or Psycho Pass(you'll see a properly villainous character in Psycho Pass.)

EDIT: Eric is not completely hopeless that everyone is hating on him about. If you've played Dragon Quest XI then you know of a character called, Vince Vanquish who abducts challengers and gives them to Arachtagon; before the Hero arrives on the scene, Vince won the tournament, so for a full year he abducted and let people *die* due to his actions. What Eric does is similar to Vince, I don't understand why the dev team and Boyfriend Dungeon are so keen on hating on the poor man.

Also dev team, please make him a romance. It is not impossible to keep everything exactly as it is in your story *and* have an Eric romance. For one thing, if your protagonist shows him kindness and a keen interest in Eric, then he will be pleased but feel extremely guilty and probably want to break off the relationship. At the end of the game when everything comes to light, you should be given the choice to accept Eric for every one of his faults, or stay with one of the other romances. I think that would be the best story for him <3.

EDIT: Changing my review to "Not Recommended" because the dev team looks like they have no interest in adjusting their writing to make the Protagonist not be a total C-word and to treat Eric with civility, courtesy and kindness. If the dev team surprises me with an update to their writing in regards to Eric, then I will recommend it again. The story has strengths, but the writing team is much too heavy handed in forcing young people to *hate* Eric. The poor guy doesn't deserve the reception he gets. Eric needs our love <3.
 

Chiramu
