2,530 people found this review helpful
28 people found this review funny 277

Not Recommended
71.0 hrs on record
Posted: 6 March
For the longest time, I've been on a fence about this game. Finally, a month after finishing it, I'm able to write a review - and sadly, I do not recommend Veilguard.

Let's just state I'm a big Dragon Age fan, I've played all previous titles multiple times. It has to be said, while the core of DA has always been the same, no game from the series was really like the others and it would be silly to expect it from it now. Still, Veilguard has somehow managed to come as the weakest of their siblings, providing the player with the most forgettable experience of all Dragon Ages.

My biggest issue with the game: it holds your hand. It holds it so tightly and persistently it gets sweaty and uncomfortable. The plot is linear, the exploration unrewarding, if you can even call it exploration - mostly you'll run into invisible or even visible walls that can only be unlocked when the game tells you it's the right time. The combat, after finetuning the aim snapping settings, was even fun (at least for melee combat rogue), but the companions are absolutely useless. You have aggro almost all the time and they can't deal with the easiest opponents by themselves, serving you well only as vessels for their special abilities. The world looks pretty - yes - the landscapes has always been a strong point of Frosty engine and that's the only thing that feels cool about exploration. The environmental "puzzle" treat the player like an idiot and the only thing missing is a giant neon arrow pointing at levers/crystals you're supposed to trigger next to unlock way to the next loot chest. Worry not, if you manage to get lost in a straightforward mechanics of it, the NPCs will eagerly point you at the right direction. Repeatedly. Until you're yelling "shut up!" at your screen when hearing another "we must find the crystal to open this gate" cue.

The game plays itself. It requires little to none player input. You're there to click at glowing buttons to "upgrade" your shops and weapons. To click dialogue options, but instead of usual NPC->player line of choice->NPC-> player line of choice scheme, there's a bizzare implementation of whole chunks of dialogue that play as a movie after you choose one dialogue option, leaving you but a passive witness to whatever the writers seemed fit to be said next. There's no way of molding your Rook into something too, they feel hollow.

Romance content is a joke. A few very short scenes with almost no chemistry.

I lost a ton of respect for Hans Zimmer for signing under a creation of such vile, unfitting and overall "generic fantasy adventure music 10h" soundtrack.

It annoyed the hell out of me, the game kept forgetting its own lore. It annoyed me that most of the time, it felt like playing a TTRPG and being the only player trying to remain serious while the rest of the players keep laughing at what the GM describes. To the tune of Zimmer's circus theme, cause why not. This vibe was only strengthened by the fairy-tale like alignments. Good guys are good, bad guys are bad, simple, easy, no shades of grey. The de-humanisation of adversaries has somehow made the game the most racist and xenophobic of all from the series, while the goal I suppose was the opposite. Overall, it feels like all the edges have been meticulously sanded off. Any team conflict is resolved faster than you can say "Dragon Age The Veilguard". Any faction that could have a darker side is void of it, we got kind-hearted assassins and pirates who don't steal.

To sum it up, I've wanted to like this game, but it failed to make me care. And that's the biggest flaw. There'd been a potential that's been lost somewhere in 10 years of production and the finished product feels like a diluted version of what could have been.
If anyone needs me, I'll be replaying flawed but juicy Inquisition.
 

inkyblackfire
26
1,074 people found this review helpful
10 people found this review funny 121

Not Recommended
65.2 hrs on record
Posted: 13 February
Believe me when I say I wanted to love this game. Desperately. I am an avid fan of the Dragon Age series (My stats for Inquisition can attest to that.) SPOILERS BELOW.

I went in blind, without reading reviews because I wanted to form my own opinion and BOY DID I. Let's start with the few positives: I enjoyed the combat, it was quite fun even if it was cartoonish and very flashy, but that's this game in a nutshell, isn't it? Cartoonish.

That's where my enthusiasm ended. I play Dragon Age for the characters and the story, all of which was lacking from this game. Rook is completely disconnected to the world, some random found by Varric (why is the Viscount of Kirkwall off chasing Solas anyway?) Their personality is that of an MCU character constantly trying to talk in funny quips or cool soundbites. Much of the established lore of the previous games, the rules of the political climate has just been abandoned in favour of "But this is NORTH Thedas, so it's fine!" - Essentially in the narrative, they just burn the whole of the South in some poor attempt to write it off and ignore it.

Previous questions such as what happened to Alistair/Hawke when they went to Weisshaupt at the end of Inquisition are ignored, what happened to the Hero of Ferelden if they went searching for a cure. In fact, even at Weisshaupt, a Grey Warden stronghold that's been spoken about in all three previous games, the Warden who ended the fifth blight doesn't even get a mention!

All of this boils down to the decision not to carry over a world state. Only the Inquisitor, and it's made very obvious by the default Inquisitor being an Elf that they relied heavily on a Solas romance narrative for an ending. If things in the South are so bad, why is the Inquisitor simply having a jaunt up north for what could have been said in a letter?

SO much was ignored by the writers in favour of what turned into a Young Adult fan fiction of a game. The dialogue is inoffensive and uncomplex, it's virtually impossible to actually role play anything other than an HR manager. Neve is cardboard and dull. Bellara may as well be a Disney princess. It's difficult to believe this is the same Scout Harding who was Leliana's second in Inquisition, since her personality has aged backwards. Even Morrigan has lost her edge.

I wanted to love this, I really did and I'm still trying with another play just to make sure I haven't been too hasty, but it's been bitterly disappointing and the most unsatisfying conclusion (or lack of) to characters I adored.
 

JaylaDark
0
1,271 people found this review helpful
10 people found this review funny 149

Not Recommended
79.9 hrs on record
Posted: 25 February
TL;DR This game is an insult to every past Dragon Age.

Positives:
Fun combat, good graphics, runs well, interesting world-building revelations. That is the only praise I have for this game.

Negatives:
Extremely black-and-white characters. Everyone you work with is an objective good guy and everyone you fight is an objective villain. There is zero grey morality that Dragon Age is known for. The factions are particularly egregious.

The literal orphan-kidnapping assassins are portrayed as good guys and nobody ever questions it. Speaking to Zevran for 10 seconds in Origins tells you that they are ABSOLUTELY NOT the good guys.

The grave-robbing pirates are portrayed as objective good guys, and when someone questions them, they say "oh don't worry we don't rob people and whenever we pillage ancient relics, we make sure to give anything with cultural significance back to its people." Okay so where did these piles of gold come from? Did you just find it laying on the ground?

The necromancers led by despotic undead liches are portrayed as objective good guys. "Don't worry, we are the GOOD necromancers who are basically glorified babysitters for lost spirits and such."

It all seems like "Ohhh look how quirky we are, here are these traditionally evil groups that are really nice, but misunderstood." F*** off with that. No group in the Dragon Age universe has ever been wholly "good". They all have ulterior motives and often achieve their goals through questionable means.

In the same vein, Rook (the protagonist) and companions are so incredibly sanitary. God forbid anyone have any opinion other than "Yes, we should do the objectively good thing." Rook can only choose between positive, slightly less positive, and slightly sarcastic positive. There is never an option to disagree with a companion outside of the few "pick a side" dialogues. I purposely tried to get as many "X Disapproves" as possible and got maybe 10 the whole game (half of which were from those "pick a side" dialogues). You can get that many "X Approves" in about 20 minutes so there is actually no reason for the system to exist at all. By far the worst role-playing I have ever experienced in a ROLE-PLAYING GAME.

Remember when we could accept a deal from a demon, gaining the use of Blood Magic but dooming a child to be possessed in the future? Remember when we could poison the Urn of Sacred Ashes for the support of dragon cultists but have to kill 2 companions because they were so against it? Remember when we could let the traitor Loghain join our party at the expense of Alistair leaving and becoming a drunk? There are NO morally grey choices or evil choices in this game. The most "evil" thing you can do is decide not to kill the mayor who sold out his people (leaving him to die slowly and become a monster).

The game hardly talks about or depicts things like slavery, racism, sexism and prostitution (IN THE CITY KNOWN FOR ENSLAVING AND HATING ELVES). How sanitary it all is disgusts me.

Gone is the deep companion conversations you could have in previous games. Outside of scripted events and sidequests, companions will never just sit there and have a conversation with you about their past or how much they hate the other companions (again, negatives aren't allowed in this game).

There is really only a few choices in the game and they all take place during the finale. Every "choice" before that is not really a choice because none of them have consequences. The city that you don't defend looks a little different and you lose access to that faction (oh nooooooo), but nobody dies and it doesn't affect hardly anything else.

The art style is more fit for "goofy cartoon" than "dark, gritty fantasy" which makes sense since the entire game feels more like a Marvel/Pixar movie than the world depicted in previous games.

Despite being the first DIRECT SEQUEL in Dragon Age, it carries over only 3 completely inconsequential choices from the game it is a sequel to. No cool cameos, no references to past events, no delivering on the big choices we make at the end of Inquisition.

Rook is Dragon Age's worst protagonist by far. We never figure out why they are fighting Solas other than "Varric just kinda found them." The Inquisitor was such an obvious protagonist but to use them, Bioware would have to actualyl carry over choices. The Inquisitor at the end of the Trespasser epilogue DLC says they will personally find Solas and stop him...and the excuse we get in Veilguard as to why they aren't doing anything is "they are busy".

This game was clearly made for corporate profits and nothing else. It is devoid of the creative genius present in Golden Age Bioware games. All we can hope for now is Bioware abandoning the franchise and allowing a studio who actually has creative vision take the mantle.
 

Cerbearus
10
7,428 people found this review helpful
52 people found this review funny 770

Not Recommended
133.1 hrs on record
Posted: 25 November, 2024
Speaking as someone who has been a fan since the early games, it pains me to downvote this. I tried my hardest to keep an open mind, to support and enjoy it, and consider the rough development timeline it has suffered. However, ultimately, despite being good enough as an RPG, Veilguard is NOT a good Dragon Age game.

The positives:
The locations are visually impressive and (despite its flaws) the combat/gameplay mechanics is much more sure of itself than Inquisition or DA2, for example. The level design was overall quite engaging and some of the bigger quests, particularly the were very good.

There are however, many things that I could not look past.

1) The dialogue wheel. I knew this was going to be RP-lite as soon as I saw it, however this somehow manages to be worse than it was in Inquisition. In the end I felt like it didn't matter what option I picked, because Rook never said anything remotely close to what the prompt hinted at. Every time my character spoke it felt like I had zero control over who I wanted them to be.

2) Dialogue. Dialogue has been one of the main community-wide criticisms I have seen for this game and I have to say I agree. Voice actors sound like they've had no context for the conversation. Their intonation makes no sense and it constantly breaks my immersion. The banter has no soul and everyone speaks to each other like they're trying to make small-talk at a workplace. Rook never engages on a natural level with the companions; in fact they end up sounding like some sort of life coach. Everything feels like a guided therapy session. Example: Rook walks in on two companions arguing about their differences, Rook comes in and patronisingly explains the concept of Compromise, the companions shake hands and are now best friends. Rinse and repeat. It is like reading a children's storybook. This is becomes even more evident when the dialogue has to CONSTANTLY recap/explain what's going on as if it wasn't painfully obvious to begin with. Again, this is executed in a very unnatural way. It treats the player as if they are a child. This would be great in a childrens' game but this is supposedly M-rated.

3) Combat. Although the combat itself is an improvement, the skill tree is tremendously flawed. It works for the early levels - you gain new skills and get to experiment with your build. However, once you reach your specialisation, that is where the fun ends. Everything is repetitive from thereon in, and every level up feels like a chore because all you are doing is grabbing new passives to keep up with the enemies. There are no new skills to look forward to. No "endgame build" to work towards.

4) Pacing. The main quest is a solid RPG story, but I find the way it paces itself around the side-content to be a let down. There are huge end-game consequences if you don't complete the side-content. This causes the game to become a huge grind in Act 2, and lightning-speed in Act 3. I found myself getting very demotivated during Act 2, to the point where I almost lost interest completely. Then Act 3 flew by in the space of half an evening.

5) Races and factions. Veilguard factions do not have the same amount of content. Picking Lords of Fortune, for example, you will get almost no tie-in content or dialogue reactivity beyond constantly saying "for gold and glory" over and over. The balance of faction-themed items is completely off - it actually made me wonder if they ran out of time for some of them. Races are also very inconsistent in terms of lore, making it even more difficult to RP. For example, picking an elf means your Rook constantly contradicts themselves when talking about whether they're Dalish or not, their tattoos, whether they believed in the Creators or not. It all feels completely meaningless. You have no real control over who your Rook is or what their values are.

6) Black and white morality. One thing that I found compelling in previous instalments was the deep complexities of different factions. Are Templars good or bad? Should mages be imprisoned? In this game, no real debate is presented. The player factions are generally portrayed as "the good guys" despite them historically having dark sides to explore. Given that there is already no room for RP, we now can't even form our own judgement on complex lore-related issues. It is all stripped down to "we must unite together and fight the bad guys". Again, this feels childish and over-simplified.

7) The worldstate. Personally, I found it a huge shame that we could not pick at least some core decisions we made in previous games. Inquisition is not my favourite, but the reason I replayed it was because I felt like my choices mattered. I enjoyed playing around with the world I had built. With Veilguard, the choices we pick only really relate to Solas. For example, my Inquisitor never mentioned his LI, but if you romanced Solas, you get (as usual) tons of content. The politics of southern Thedas is reduced to "the Inquisitor" and "everything is destroyed by the Blight". This feels incredibly lazy and was a huge let down. I used to feel excited to read codex entries referencing things from previous games, but in this game it feels completely devoid of any respect to fans who have propped up this franchise for a decade and a half.

Overall I enjoyed this game while it lasted, but I doubt I will be replaying it again. For me, it goes onto the shelf with all of the other mid RPGs I have played. It will not be remembered fondly as a true Dragon Age game.
 

moon
159 products in account
0
3,415 people found this review helpful
43 people found this review funny 444

Not Recommended
92.2 hrs on record
Posted: 11 December, 2024
One thing up front: not liking the game has NOTHING to do with it being "too woke".

DA Veilguard took everything that made the Dragon Age series so interesting and fascinating - the conflict, the moral greyness, the choices that have consequences, the romances, the interactions with companions - and, well, deleted them.

Yes, you have companions and there are interactions with them, but you can never interact with them by yourself (no going to talk to someone like in DAI). The romances are minimal, there's extremely little content.
The Player Character is a hand-for-hire without any personal stakes in what is happening. There is no real roleplaying aspect - you can be nice, nice-with-a-joke or stern-nice. You can never disagree with someone or tell them they're wrong. And: you have a companion from your faction that is ALWAYS more important than you for that faction. Your character doesn't really matter to the story.

But most importantly, the story has been filed down to absolute shallowness. It’s pumped so full of flavour without substance, all edges have been smoothed over until there’s nothing left of conflict and friction and ANYTHING that could be a tiny bit controversial that it feels… hollow. There are factions that are utterly useless and have zero content, and others that SHOULD have content are ignored (Lords of Fortune vs. Dwarves. Seriously. KAL-SHIROK?! Why wasn't that a faction?!?). There are such interesting story bits in side quests and companion quests, but none have consequences, none have depth (looking at dwarven magic, a Forgotten One, rogue Qunari, a demon possession, political upheaval in Tevinter...).

Nothing from the old games matters. The more lore you know, the harder it is to play this game. They completely erase Thedas from the map in LETTERS your character may or may not read. Finally we see Tevinter - except we see nothing of Tevinter or even hints of what we know of the land. No slavery, no blood magic - except for the faceless bad Venatori, of course. Finally we see the Crows - except we see nothing of what Zevran fought against and tried to dismantle. Instead we have a benevolent mafia (???). Finally, we see Dalish that are actually adept at handling their story - and then they kick that around with a conversation where they speculate that maybe humans were right to treat them like they did.

There's more, but this is long already. The game is visually beautiful and the lore we get of Solas and Mythal etc. is awesome. The fights are fun (if you don't mind that the same enemies respawn every time you walk around a corner). But if you're looking for an RPG, Veilguard is not the game for you. If you're looking to deepen you experience of Dragon Age, Veilguard is not the game for you. I really wanted to love this game. Instead, I'm so massively annoyed and disappointed by it I won't be replaying it.
 

elveny
0
1,231 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 133

Not Recommended
51.4 hrs on record
Posted: 29 January
As a long-time Dragon Age fan, I waited for this game's release for years and preordered it once it was available. After sinking over 50 hours into Dragon Age: The Veilguard, I cannot bring myself to finish it. I wanted to like this game, and despite several attempts to give it a fair chance, I decided that my time was better spent elsewhere. While the game has a few positives, its flaws, such as the abysmal writing, have made it unenjoyable for me.

The writing is the game's biggest downfall. I can't get past how painfully generic and lifeless the dialogue feels. The conversations often feel AI-generated or like HR presentations that strip away any sense of personality or immersion. This lack of depth and character is disappointing for a series that was once the pinnacle of meaningful dialogue.

Another major issue is the lack of player agency. Unlike the original Dragon Age games, which offered many choices that influenced the world and the story, The Veilguard takes a more linear, safe approach. You play as Rook, a perpetually friendly and supportive character with no room for variation or moral complexity. The absence of any truly "renegade" options or morally gray choices leaves the dialogue feeling lifeless. The few choices you're presented with are ultimately meaningless.

The game also wholly abandons the dark, gritty tone that defined the previous titles, especially Origins. Instead, The Veilguard has a jarring and out-of-place Disney visual style. The vibrant graphics are impressive, but they feel at odds with the series' themes and only undermine the tension and seriousness that once made the world of Thedas interesting.

Combat feels flashy and fun initially. However, its simplistic mechanics and repetitive nature become apparent after several hours. The increased difficulty settings turn enemies into health sponges rather than offering more nuanced challenges. Combat quickly becomes a tedious grind, lacking any tactical depth.

On a positive note, the game has impressive graphics and runs well. During my playthrough, I experienced no crashes or bugs, a rare achievement nowadays. The character creator was also great and had various customization options. The attention to detail, especially in the hair designs, is fantastic.

However, these positives aren't enough to make up for the game's many flaws. If you're a fan of the original Dragon Age games, you'll likely be as disappointed as I am. The Veilguard is Dragon Age in name only. It feels hollow and scared to take risks.

Ultimately, I regret giving EA my money, and I can't recommend this game to anyone who values deep stories, role-playing, and the legacy of Dragon Age. Bioware is dead and gone; whatever corpse EA is animating isn't the Bioware we knew and loved.
 

Kerberus
0
7,014 people found this review helpful
48 people found this review funny 1,057

Not Recommended
25.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Waited 9 years for a new instalment of Dragon Age series, one of my all time favourite game franchises! I've always been a fan of Bioware games, like Mass Effect, and OG Baldur's Gate. And I replayed ALL the DA games ready and in anticipation of DAV. I am both saddened and mad at the state of this game!!

Lets start off with the things I'm glad about:

- Romance any of the companions (honestly felt that this should have been in all the games)
- Better hair styles
- Even on lowest graphics it looks like DAI on ultra (though that was 10 years old at this point)
- You can pet cats and dogs you find in your travels, not all but some (edit)

Cons:

- Characters feel samey - they really don't have anything to distinguish themselves from each other, and feel very much like a click where everyone loves everyone and gets alone with no issues.
- Back to DAO days of corridor running
- Puzzles are lacking/non-existent
- Combat is dull, boring and lacks skills to use on the battlefield - by this in DAI you could have up to 8 skills on your hot bar when using controller and still be able to command your party. You get one less companion and only 3 skills this time round, making combat a "smash x to win"
- No dalish option for your character if your run elf - this feels like a HUGE miss
- Lack of character development for both PC and companions
- No real renegade options - I miss being able to choose if i wanted a lawful good run or just pure chaos
- approval system is just pointless
- Lore completely retconned - Everything I knew about DA (literally replayed all 3 games so many times cos of my love for the games) was thrown out of a window and stamped on. Feels more like a 12 year old girl's fanfic than a real lore driven game.
- Story lack luster, feels all choices I made in previous games to create a world state was pointless, and while I understand after all this time would be hard to integrate DAV in to something like DragonsKeep I feel they should have given us more choices to add in that would MATTER to the game state. Not only that the story feels stale, uninteresting and just weak. Even DA2 was better than this and we all know that had a weak story with bad pacing, this is 100% times worse!!
- I felt patronised as a player by how the characters talked down to me even Varric when that has never been his personality.
- Character assassinated previous characters from how they speak, to how they behaved.
- This is not a "progressive" game, the original 3 games where progressive, this felt very regressive and a lot of pointless real world politics added in a distasteful way, that it was uncomfortable for me to play through, and I'm a female, bisexual, demisexual, disabled person that is usually all for progressive games, instead this was not what I got. Instead I was forced to endure very patronising cutscenes and waste time on things that have no bareings on a world ending crisis/story line.
- Character creation, while better than previous instalments, was still bad. No matter how hard I tried to make my lady elf look good she still felt like a man in the face. Body I couldn't care less about, as the body wasn't really an option in previous games, always the same body shape and we always had gender neutral armour on anyway so I didn't care, but the face... Good gosh that was aweful...
- Heads of all characters STILL look too large, body proportions where all over the place and looked odd and wonky. Just over all not a fan of this more cartoon look, but I could have lived with this IF this was the only con.

Over all this has been one of the most uncomfortable games I've played through. I was so desperate for a new DA game, that I preordered the deleux edition of this game, and was so excited for this. As I mentioned earlier in this, it really does feel like someone's fanfic, that removes everything they disliked about DA (so all of the set lore and previous story) and wrote how they felt the game should end. I wish I could defend this game but I really can't and it breaks my heart. This was meant to be a continuation of the already outlined story from the first 3 games instead this doesn't even feel like the same franchise anymore.

I get the old DA devs didn't work on this game (they don't even work at Bioware anymore) so I expected some changes/retcons, but this... This is a terrible joke, and a F--- you to the fans. The game has 0 idea what it is telling, what it wants to be, or anything. I feel at this point the game would have been better recieved had they started from scratch with Origins and rebooted the series OR better yet, just created a whole new franchise, new story and stayed away from a beloved franchise. I am usually fine with changes in games/stories but there needs to be a reason for it, it needs to be better than what came before, even if its just testing waters and flops. But I can't sit here and defend or excuse what this mess is.

While I doubt my view will change, I still plan to finish this game to see how much else has been ruined, I will NEVER recommend this game, and I pray no one buys this game as a loud message needs to be set to companies about pulling these stunts.
 

Kitty Saionji
512 products in account
170
1,128 people found this review helpful
10 people found this review funny 115

Not Recommended
194.1 hrs on record
Posted: 17 December, 2024
I never thought I'd be a person who would thumbs down a game he spent 200 hours on, but here we are...

When senior writer David Gaider left Bioware he said Bioware no longer cared about writing quality, and man was he right. This game is embarrassingly poorly written in every way. The dialog is the worst millennial snark, the tone is Saturday morning cartoon shenannigans, the depth and maturity in the previous games has been completely stripped out. This game's writing is so afraid to challenge anyone, to make anyone think, to offend anyone, to have anyone take it seriously, that it ends up childish and boring.

The game's original muiltiplayer design is also all over it. All real dialog comes from quest steps, there's no real wandering around town talking to people. Levels feel like linear loot grind missions. Companions rarely chime in during dialog or appear in cutscenes unless it's specifically their companion quest. Even the kid's show tone is likely rooted in this desire to be an online game played by a billion Fortnite kids.

Why did I play it so long? Well the combat is actually really good! Making character builds with a plethora of choices and combinations of skills, gear and tactics is great stuff. That's what I spent most of my time doing, and I had fun doing it. I also wanted to see how the story of this franchise (likely) ended, despite the awful writing.

However from any kind of objective point of view this game is not that good. It's not good as a story whatsoever, it's not good as an RPG because of obvious limitations of multiplayer design, and it's not good as a Dragon Age sequel because of gameplay changes and childish storytelling. Maybe you'd get addicted to the combat and character builds like I did, but does that make it a good game? No. A game I can recommend to RPG players? No.

Thus 200 hours equals a thumbs down, and I don't feel silly doing it.
 

StingingVelvet
917 products in account
0
5,981 people found this review helpful
56 people found this review funny 479

Not Recommended
46.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
PROS:
- best looking hair I've ever seen in a game
- gorgerous environments
- I actually do like the character designs
- some of the writing is cute and makes me laugh
- some characters have pretty good voice acting
- can pet cats
- the game actually works on release (sad that it's a plus at this point, but, yanno)

NEUTRAL:
- combat is meh, some will like it, some will not, I didn't mind it
- video-gamey map design, why the f are there ziplines in cities bro

CONS:
- boring music, might as well not be there
- braindead puzzles, take them out and you lose nothing, WHY ARE THEY THERE
- at least half of the dialogue is atrocious, I cringe way too often
- voice acting is subpar, especially on Neve's character
- KBM controls are annoyingly consolified
- camera gets hijacked all the time
- infantile writing at times that does not match the tone of the situation the characters are in
- facial animation is bad
- feels clunky
- UI is a wreck of glowing things that draw your attention for no reason (why does the level show up every time I gain exp, WHY)
- not enough Solas
- First Big Choice writing was so bad I damn near quit on the spot
- the vibe of the whole thing is off, why are they all so cheery, why are their problems so dumb, WORLD IS BLOODY ENDING, ACT LIKE IT
- there's something off with targeting

bioware is NOT back.
 

Ly
0
6,345 people found this review helpful
43 people found this review funny 587

Not Recommended
65.7 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
I beat the game. It took about 62 hours to do so and my biggest takeaway from this game is that this isn't a BioWare game.

BioWare made it's name on "your choices matter", then boiled down 200 hours of content down to three questions and destroyed every former region in what feels like a scorched earth attempt to say "We're done here, stop asking about things from Origins/2/Inquisition because they're dead and now there's no going back" and that nothing that we did in those three previous games mattered because it's all gone now anyway.

It feels BAD. It feels like a betrayal and sellout for a modern take and a fresh audience who aren't going to care about those things. If you're new to the franchise, you may enjoy it, the combat is formatted to align with more modern games and if the vibes match what you want, then go for it, but if you're a longtime Dragon Age fan looking forward to this game, my biggest and most stern recommendation is to not play it. It will not meet your expectations and will ruin what love you had remaining for the company.

Go back and play Origins instead.
 

TheClicheInLife
102
2,004 people found this review helpful
30 people found this review funny 263

Not Recommended
118.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 December, 2024
10 years ago, I played Dragon Age Inquisition for the first time and completely fell in love with the entire series. I went back and played the other two games multiple times, read the lore and additional comics, made several world states in the Dragon Age keep, carefully and thoughtfully building my ideal story so that when Dreadwolf finally came and I could lead my beloved characters and this full, beautiful world into a finale worthy of it. You can imagine my disappointment.

Dragon Age: Veilguard feels like a game catered to a different audience entirely. I still cannot believe it belongs to the same game series and world I fell in love with. To put it into perspective, Dragon Age: Inquisition ends on a cliffhanger that suggests a cultural revolution and uprising from the elves leaving to join forces with Solas and his armies. It leaves both the sunburst and andrastian chantry shocked, horrified and angry at Solas' claims to disprove their entire religion and taking up arms for it. Tevinter, at the heart of it all, losing control of both their religious following in the crisis of faith and the elves they've enslaved, all with the Qunari knocking harder on their doorstep. The Inquisition is left either a powerful but corrupt organization with a massive army and no direction, or a small group of friends with few resources and weak efforts; all this in addition to the storyline that followed us through every game before this, the Circle mages finally rebelling against the Templars, causing tensions to be higher than they've ever been on a scale much bigger than Kirkwall in Dragon age 2 and sending the chantry into more discord, leaving the divine you've chosen to frantically pick up the pieces. This was our setup into this game.

I was on the edge of my seat, particularly with the state of the world now, thinking at least I can fight my battles in Dragon Age and tackle this representation of very real issues to help me process the horrors we are seeing politically today. I don't know how to express how much this game meant to me, and so to play through it and discover that all of the lore and relevance and meaning that I had been anticipating not only wasn't there, but was actively dismissed the moment they asked me to set minimize my entire world state into 2 of maybe the least important questions (I love solas don't get me wrong but ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ there was so much more) : whether or not the inquisition was disbanded (not even for story purposes around corruption or anything like the reasons said in the third game, but simply for a single sentence the inquisitor says) and whether or not I wanted to redeem Solas.

I couldn't believe the disrespect for the long term fans of the game in the interest of a much simpler and bland setting full of characters with two or three personality traits each, poorly written and frankly jarring dialogue choices, the loss of tactical camera for a more trendy and oversimplified combat and loot system (though I will admit this is more personal preference and the pacing of the combat system was actually an improvement in some ways despite being a disappointment in others), and the loss of such impactful, empathetic, captivating and personal relationships reduced to a handful of romantic encounters and surface-level problems that not only are severely lacking in content and perspective but feel reminiscent of scrambling to get teenagers to work together for their last minute dnd game.

And, on an even more personal note, I feel personally scorned as a trans person playing this game. I was at first delighted to discover that my community would have representation and the option to be trans and have a variety of LGBTQ+ representation in the game to look forward to. What I did not expect was to see a childish brat who quite literally spits in their mother's face for not understanding them immediately, undermining all the effort and pain that many queer people endure to keep their families and help them understand their queerness. Taash has no respect or empathy for others, and their arguments for queerness feel like watching the plot of heartstopper catered at pre-teens suddenly thrust in the middle of a 15 year old dark fantasy franchise. Taash is a disrespectful and harmful interpretation of a very lovely and important community that has only given grounds for conservative bigots to hate on our community more. It is a gross oversimplification of queer struggles, and frankly I have no idea why they couldn't just give us representation without having to attend a therapy session between what is supposed to be a grown person and their mother that we cannot even express our disapproval or discomfort with in the game. It makes me sad to think back on that beautiful scene with Dorian and his father in Inquisition, where the word gay isn't even mentioned or really relevant, it's just a fact of his reality and his reconciliation with his father is something all people, not just the queer community could relate to. It was a storyline that honored the existence and difficulties of queerness while acknowledging that although it is relevant and does matter, who the ♥♥♥♥ cares, and how is it your business? Knowing that Bioware had done and could have done it right again instead of what we got broke my heart.

I understand that there is a lot of pressure, time, money, and work to come out with a game founded on such tangled webs and what if's depending on whether or not the player experienced the previous games, but I firmly believe that Veilguard could have set itself up for success with a short animated sequence in game to catch players up and let them choose their world state right there; if they had prioritized the love and respect of the world and its art over fitting into current trends, I can now only imagine what could have been--I would have taken so much over what we got, but alas.

I have so much more to say and so many grievences to air, but these are the ones I felt were most important to share and hopefully will save someone $60.

TLDR: if you are a long term fan of the Dragon Age franchise and love the lore, I would not recommend this game, and I instead would encourage you to save yourself the time and money, and go back and play the games we know and love.

If you're new here, and you just want a simple RPG, I still wouldn't recommend it, because it's $60 and 70 hours minimum for a whole lot of "meh". I personally recommend The Witcher, Baldurs Gate 3, or Vampyr if you're looking for an interesting RPG.
 

Nico
54 products in account
24
3,066 people found this review helpful
39 people found this review funny 276

Not Recommended
8.1 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I will edit this review if my opinion changes as I play. I am 4 hours in and I still don't feel like the game has started. My immersion in a Dragon Age game has legitimatly never been lower than these 4 hours. Player agency is non existent, I don't feel like I've gotten any opportunity to RP, or develop my character at all. I have no idea who this dude is, I don't feel like a part of the world, and the characters all blur together into a singular lifeless entity. Everything feels like a set, you get plopped into scenes at a rapid pace with no chance to explore. There has genuinely never been another game in the series that has felt so completely on rails and uninterested in letting the player actually interact with it. And the dialogue. Oh god. Not even just the player's, which is abysmal, but the dialogue in general is written so badly. Characters repeat themselves over, and over again like you're too stupid to have heard them the first time. Here is an example of what I mean (paraphrased but the gist is there):

Character A: we’re searching for the Nadas Dirthalan! It’s an archive spirit.
Character B: Nadas Dirthalan?
Character A: Yes! It’s a spirit that can tell us all about the ancient elves history!

A few minutes later

Character A: We’re close to the Archive Spirit! I have so many questions to ask it.

Another few minutes later, we meet it, it disappears.

Character B: Well it’s broken like all the other artifacts here.
Character A: it’s not just any artifact! It’s the Nadas Dirthalan! The Archive Spirit! I have so many questions to ask it!

*fade to black, teleported to new location*

Character A: blah blah something something Nadas Dirthalan
Character C: Wait! You met the Nadas Dirthalan? The Archive Spirit? We could ask it about the ancient elven gods!

If they aren't repeating exposition/objectives at you, they're using the most corny and predictable filler dialogue. How many times have you heard "It's quiet here... TOO QUIET." cuz it's got that. I wouldn't be surprised to hear a "He's standing right behind me isn't he" or a "Well that just happened." I guess this is what we're left with when EA decides to fire their best writers for the series.

8 hours in and I still couldn't tell you a single thing about these characters beyond one or two word descriptions. I could list a fact or two about them, but I really am getting absolutely no personality off them. Everyone feels so cardboard. The only character with a shred of personality is almost entirely due to the talent of the voice actress portraying her, working hard with a piss poor script.

Part of me feels awful, hating this game so much. I want to make it clear that zero of the reasons to hate this game have to do with inclusion or "wokeness." I wish people would stop making it about that, it's a nothing criticism, it's an entirely artificial conflict, and it's made the fanbase into yes men who refuse to look at the game critically or accept anything but praise for what is so obviously a lazy game devoid of anything that made these games compelling. To the people who decry this game out of bigotry alone: the Dragon Age series has always included explicit queer identity and giving the player more options to express that aspect of their own character is a positive in my book. Having more LGBT characters or options for players to explore their own character's identity in a game does nothing to you. Get over yourself. Unfortunately, it's in a ♥♥♥♥ game that has no place calling itself part of what was an incredible trilogy, and yes, for all of DA2's short comings, it is still leagues better than this game. There is a STARK contrast between the two, actually. DA2 had a ridiculously rushed production, had ambitions it couldn't deliver on because of executive meddling and STILL managed to tell an incredible story with rich, memorable characters. And then those talented writers got fired or left, and we got to wait an entire decade for a polished turd.
 

LORT
122 products in account
0
906 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 24

Not Recommended
27.1 hrs on record
Posted: 24 November, 2024
I really wanted to like this game, but it's just super boring and the writing is very poor. I hate that the whole main plot feels like a complete side-story and a total cop-out to actually progressing the narrative with Solas. I dislike the lack of player agency in driving forward the story, and a lot of the dialogue is shoddy.

The level design feels archaic. The best thing this game has going for it is the combat, which is decent, but what a thing to say about a Bioware game where story is supposed to be the driving force that you care deeply about.

In the past I would have forced myself to sit through another 40-50 hours to get this finished but honestly I can't be bothered. Any hype for the new Mass Effect is gone.
 

Primm Slim
5
2,304 people found this review helpful
17 people found this review funny 92

Not Recommended
55.8 hrs on record
Posted: 19 November, 2024
Not for old school Dragon Age fans

If you are expecting a Role Playing Game where your decisions can influence the story, this is not it. This is a linear action game in the Dragon Age universe. I have nothing against action games, I actually enjoy them very much but that is not what this game was marketed as.

Combat is fun. As a spellblade mage I enjoyed the gameplay quite a bit. Enemy variation gets a little stale by the end of the game though.

Companions in the game are inconsequential. I enjoyed some of the companions' stories but some of them were just a grind to finish their quest line. They are highlighted buttons to press in the combat. Dialogue is sometimes fun, sometimes torture.

I see no replay value since the choices don't really change the story significantly, other than the choice at the end of the game. As a person that finished the previous games multiple times it is a little disappointing.
 

Umudor
158 products in account
0
3,291 people found this review helpful
26 people found this review funny 332

Not Recommended
6.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
Out of all the (idiotic) controversies, out of all the changes in gameplay, out of every decision to simplify the story (Yes, I have been playing since Origins) know that I couldn't give a damn for the integrity. Every DA game has been different since the beginning, and I'm fine with everything changing, but this one breaks the cardinal rule which made me quit.

It doesn't trust me.

This game reeks of insecurity, both in its gameplay and storytelling. "Look, coming in on your left.", "Oh wow, this is so amazing.", "That's one point to Rook". Stop telling me how to do things, where I go, how I'm MEANT to feel. Let me get lost in this world.

Unfortunately, every step is meant to make sure that I don't miss the story beats THEY want. This isn't my story anymore, it's someone elses.
 

master_seta
203 products in account
0
2,997 people found this review helpful
18 people found this review funny 229

Not Recommended
12.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Disappointment and wasted potential:

The good:
Runs very well, very smooth, not a single bug or stutter in 12 hours of gameplay.
The visual design of the levels and environments and the atmosphere of the big set pieces. They look and feel big and apocalyptic.
Character creation, visually has alot of options and room to make your PC look the way you want. Hair in particular looks very lifelike.

The bad:
The Combat - Is mediocre at best, whilst the visuals and animations are quite flashy, it feels like a dumbed down version of Inquisitions combat. It gets boring and repetitive within a few hours. I turned the difficulty down after a few hours so I could get through it more quickly. Gone is the tactical combat and engineered party synergy of previous games.

The Story - Feels like it has the skeleton of compelling, intriguing narrative full of secrets revlealed, moral ambiguity and challenging decisions. However it's like it's been simplified to the level of a child's cartoon or a by the numbers phase 4 Marvel movie. This get's so frustrating because there are so many points that have the glimmer of a truly great and compelling RPG, but at every turn it feels like they fall short and fail to realise that potential. The DA setting has been built up as such well realised world with a compelling history full of mystery. Veilguard reveals answers alot of those mysteries but how they do it cheapens and taints everything that came before.

The Gear - Reminds me of a bad Korean MMO. Combine duplicate gear to upgrade it and give it more stats? Really? Where's the going on an epic quest to find a legendary sword etc? The immersion and investment?

The Worst:
The Characters & Dialogue - This is what I expect to be the high point of a Bioware game. So many times they have created compelling, well drawn casts of characters that form a web of friendship, rivalry, romance etc that I couldnt help but get entangled in. In this Veilguard fails completely. Many of the characters have alot of potential and interesting concepts, but it's rolled flat by childish, wooden dialogue. Solas is the only character that is interesting at all and much of that I suspect is just because of the build up of the previous game. This is the biggest disappointment, the game totally failed to make me invested in any of the characters in any way. The might as well have been characters in a commercial.

Conclusion:
As a fan of the series this is a huge disappointment. Ever since finishing Inquisition I've looked forward to this game yet now I've had to stop playing around 13 hours in because the game has just become a tiresome chore. Given that I replayed each of the previous installments multiple times (even DA2!). Worse this actively taints the previous games, knowing where all the tension and mystery they build is headed.

Give this one a miss unless its on a massive discount. If you're interested in the story just watch it on youtube.
 

Astns
2
3,763 people found this review helpful
23 people found this review funny 306

Not Recommended
48.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
Edit: I turned on easy mode and cleared the game. Finished all companion quests and got what I'd consider the "best" ending possible. My takeaway is that this is a game written for nobody. This is a reboot billed as a sequel: It REQUIRES knowledge of the series for it's plot to have any emotional impact - yet constantly goes out of it's way to show it's contempt for the lore and previous entries. How could this please anyone? Dragon Age was my first exposure to the Fantasy genre, I care deeply for these stories - and at this point I just hope they don't parade it's corpse around again.

To clarify, I'm not some oldhead DAO purist or a grifter. Origins, 2, and Inquisition all have their respective major faults - but I could always look past them, when the world and story was crafted with such love and care. Veilguard in comparison is soulless drivel, lacking in any nuance. It's unwilling to present any real emotional or intellectual conflict to the player - in a setting that, in many ways, is defined by it's ability to evoke these feelings.


I got past the simplification of combat.
I got past the cartoon Darkspawn.

But the writing is an insult to anyone that has had any investment in Dragon Age as a series.

The phrase “marvel tier writing” is overused, but it does apply here. It’s not that quippy dialogue is inherently bad. It’s that everything they’ve presented, be it dialogue, lore exposition, all of it - is HEAVILY sanitized. In far too many instances, the writing is amateurishly immersion breaking. It feels like HR is present in the background of every interaction. This isn't targeting inclusivity. Dragon Age has always been vocally inclusive and I love it for that - but Veilguard is so hamfisted it proves itself the most regressive of all 4 entries.

Each returning character feels like a half-baked cardboard cutout, a caricature. Why even bring Morrigan or Dorian back if you’re going to strip them of everything that connected us as players to their stories. These moments that should be amazing - seeing these characters again after 10 years, don’t just fall flat - they feel like an insult to the characters themselves.

A lot of blame is deservedly placed on corporate level decisions, but when your writing staff is so fundamentally out of touch with the setting - there was no hope in the first place.

DA2 did it in the same 3 caves with a box of scraps (and like 1/15th of the dev time)

“Did you think you mattered, Hawke? Did you think anything you ever did mattered?”
 

HanlonsShardblade
0
611 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 21

Not Recommended
70.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 January
Summary: Pains me to say it as a years-long fan, jumping from one of my favorite game experiences of DAI/Trespasser to Veilguard frankly gave me whiplash. Its overall design quality triples down on the series' trend of more simplicity and less challenging writing. Depending on your priorities, Veilguard MIGHT be passable, but frankly... I PROMISE your money deserves better than this lol, there's better RPGs out there. For those looking for meaningful variety in roleplay choices and their consequences, compelling character work and worldbuilding, or a satisfying narrative payoff of the previous, Veilguard will be mediocre at best and boring at worst. Past games were not perfect, but they were at least gripping and reactive and presented well enough I could spend hours contemplating and getting immersed in it. Veilguard jarred me out of Thedas repeatedly and frankly makes me feel silly or even downright spited through the wriiting at times for caring about it in the first place (who thought the optional "secret Illuminati" ending was even remotely a good idea? REALLY?). I sympathize for the employees that stuck through the 10 year development hell, but the creative direction and Bioware's abysmal management practices has demonstrated to me they've thoroughly lost the sauce of what the appeal of Dragon Age even was.

Writing or Quality of Content: 1/5 - Score isn't 0 mostly since Solas got me to cry as the duct tape straining to hold this group project that was cobbled together the night before corporate finally demanded it was due. However, the complete lack of regard for this antagonist's real-time agency is very disappointing. I am baffled they punted the trickster god to a time-out corner for most of the game rather than let him shine to what COULD have been DA's most interesting or conflicting antagonist yet just so they can replace him with his two mustache-twirling peers. (HOW do you make Ghila'nain boring?? I have to laugh). Choices that used to be a staple to establishing and adding onto your unique worldstate have been severely limited or rendered downright inconsequential. Veilguard feels like it's begging you not to think or ask questions, and in fact punishes you the more you do. It has a SEVERELY juvenile or talks-down-to-its-audience tonal issue that colors everything from character, to dialogue, to its CONSTANT hand-holding, to world-building, to its own baffling internal logic. I never thought that dialogue in Dragon Age could be THIS bland, or the overall ideas could be THIS shallow and tonally dissonant to what the series narrative feels it should be calling for, but I'll leave it at that or I won't stop.

Graphics: 5/5 - beautiful, and there were several times the cinematics had a great sense of scale that really delighted me. GET A LOAD OF THAT BIG DOG!!!! DOGGGGGGG!!!! Thanks.

Companions: 1/5 - this cast has potential on paper, but terribly lacking in substance to actually grip me. I couldn't care despite my effort to engage since most personal quests felt more like a chore once I realized they hardly discussed anything particularly interesting. Any hard edges or flaws are sanded down almost completely so it ends up feeling like they hardly have any unique opinions or strong feelings about anything at ALL. If I have to talk about what the bird should eat for the tenth time, or which coffee they like for the fourth, or hear "let's hug it out and be a team guys :))" for the 100th like I'm trapped in a corporate trust-building exercise hell, I am GOING to lose it. It was pretty funny that this group of "professionals" can't Stab A Mage Correctly, even when their lifetime job is Stabbing Mages and I recruited them for that specific purpose, but they can't hold the knife right until you take them on seven identical HR mandated walks to talk about their vague feelings while the world is catching on fire. My favorite was when I asked Neve - the supposed slavery abolitionist - her opinions on how they should end slavery taking place in "HER!! city," the game told me she didn't have any at all because I didn't help her yet with her personal issues. FINE! I'll go ask the rebel god instead, he's got a PLETHORA of issues, but at least he'd HAVE an opinion and some advice on how to the overthrow the imperial ruling class (not because Veilguard has anything of interest to say about politics like DA used to, but because Inquisition did most of his character work😆). Can I go argue with him more or release him from of his time-out yet? He's GOTTA be bored in there. I know I am.

Gameplay or Combat: 3/5 - I did have fun, but it was repetitive and extremely limited. How did we get from an entire keyboard of abilities in Origins down to a measly three? The reduction of fetch quests was nice though, I guess?

Said my piece - now looking forward to never thinking about this series again!
 

tunesy562
0
4,735 people found this review helpful
103 people found this review funny 816

Not Recommended
31.4 hrs on record
Posted: 13 January
I have just uninstalled a game that has sullied the name of what used to be one of my favorite video game franchises. Dragon Age: The Veilguard is a disappointment to me on so many levels.

As a fan of Dragon Age playing from Origins, I am used to a game which allowed me to choose how I wanted to play it. It also made my choices impactful, with repercussions of choices showing meaning later in my adventure, even spanning to later titles in the franchise. Dragon Age: The Veilguard threw all of that away, making a grand total of only TWO choices from previous games that mattered. Not to mention that almost all of the dialogue has no impact on how the game plays out, and you can almost just close your eyes to pick what your character says, and the outcome would be the same.

The original Dragon Age series gave me choice, letting me adventure with the companions I liked, throw away the ones I did not, and never forced me to sit through tedious and absolutely HAIR RIPPING scenarios of side quests of characters I did not like. Veilguard makes you keep every single companion, forces you to see them in quests you don’t even bring them along to, and even worse, implores you multiple times to make sure to do the OPTIONAL side companion questlines for every companion, or your party will not be strong enough to face the final battle.



The combat seems to be a step up from Inquisition, and was fun at first. After my third session it became extremely unbearable and super repetitive. I can’t even bring myself to write one redeeming quality of this game in detail.

This game forces me to be the therapist of a cast of characters that are unlikeable adult babies who feel like they came from a Disney movie in the worst way possible. It makes me sit and listen to these people whine about their issues, while the world is actually ending. Even the cameos of characters from previous games are bad. They feel like cheap party tricks that have no real meaning. BioWare messed up the art direction so bad, that the character cameos are almost comically unrecognizable. I hate everyone here, I hate myself, I hate this game.

I have been waiting 10 years for a game that was a disappointment, and lowers my opinion of the franchise itself and definitely the current state of BioWare. I may have been more forgiving if this game was developed in a year and a half like Dragon Age 2, but for a game that was in development for 10 years taking itself this seriously, and ending up this horrendous is unforgivable. Thanks BioWare for destroying a game franchise I really loved! Yippie!

Edit: You can watch a video I made of the review on YouTube! Look up "BioWare Ruined My Childhood. The Veilguard Experience." by Nene Amano
 

Keanu Reeves
0
3,150 people found this review helpful
18 people found this review funny 149

Not Recommended
27.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
Dragon Age The Veilguard is a lot like Mass Effect Andromeda, arguably the best combat in the series, (Although I much prefer my RTWP) Stunning graphics and environmental design, and never feels cumbersome to actually play. But, also like Andromeda, Veilguard suffers from abysmal, sterilized, and insultingly safe writing, little to no actual ability to shape your character's personality, and a complete disconnection to choices and events of past games in the series which made sense for Andromeda with the whole switching galaxies thing.

Veilguard almost feels afraid to mention any of the past games in a meaningful way, Characters like Morrigan and Harding who return don't feel or look like themselves, Harding in particular feeling 10 years younger than herself in Inquisition, returning characters can only mention past games in a vague way, you can't ask any of these characters any thing worthwhile. BioWare throws away one of their more interesting villains in Solas in the first 10 minutes of the game just to be replaced by 2 generically and cartoonishly evil bad guys.

I wish Steam allowed mixed review scores for times like this because their is truly a good game here for people, but this feels like a spit in the face for me and lot of fans who have been waiting 10 years for the culmination and finale of 3 entire games worth of story lines and character arcs.
 

toilet lad
0
2,446 people found this review helpful
19 people found this review funny 141

Not Recommended
64.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 November, 2024
This game may have worked as a standalone game, but a standalone game it is not. And I've judged it based on how it fits with the rest of the games in the series.

Dragon Age series has never been afraid of delving into heavier topics such as racism, slavery or sexual violence. Veilguard, on the other hand, seems to have sanded down all heavier topics from the lore or has thrown them away entirely. It has done a disservice to the lore and fans of the lore.

No longer does it feel like your choice of race matters that much. Sure you get unique dialog but outside of that, no one really reacts to it. You don't get the sense that you're in a world where Elves are almost entirely servants or slaves (only ones not are the nomadic dalish), where they lost nearly all their own culture through years of forced assimilation. Or where Qunari have been at war with Tevinter for hundreds of years, as if people forget the atrocities of war that quickly and let a random qunari just waltz about wherever they please.

The game seems to take a very black and white approach of "good guys must be good, bad guys must be bad". They took a notorious assassin group and made them into glorified freedom fighters, who've never killed innocent people (despite being, you know, ASSASSINS). The treasure hunters apparently have experts on relics to tell them when something is culturally important so they can return it. Just so there's 0 chance of them being seen as problematic. The villains in this game are cartoonish. What's worse, they make their army out of people who, realistically, wouldn't be that happy to follow them. The only justification they give for this is "power hungry people follow those who promise them power :)", ignoring any nuance there would normally be for these decisions. Let's not forget the two groups who join the villains have notoriously been at war with each other until recently. And all of a sudden they're besties?

I went into this game with an open mind, hoping they'd prove my apprehensions wrong. But they didn't. It's not just the lore they butchered either. It's how it treats you, the player, as well. Companions summarise what you saw only seconds ago, so you wouldn't possibly make your own interpretations. It tells you exactly how to solve each puzzle you come across, at least in the story and companion missions (don't remember if it also happened in free exploration). It felt like the devs were treating me like a child, or like I was stupid. It felt even worse to get to the end and only get a summary of the game you just played in the ending slides (where in previous games you found out what happened to companions and such after the game, where they went etc). And then I saw the secret ending. They just couldn't leave some of the villains of the previous 3 games be and just HAD to take away or diminish their agency.

I wish I could recommend this. But I can't. It relies a lot on the Dragon Age series, without respecting it.
 

Nivramor
0
1,329 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 105

Not Recommended
4.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
EDIT: After four hours, my opinion of the game has only gotten worse. You can tell that this was a live service game at one point. The combat and abilities feel very MMO-like, and they have a floaty-ness that feels unsatisfying. A lot of my other opinions are spoilers, so I'll leave those on the table...Fans of Origins are going to be frustrated, though.

Original Review:

It's...fine. Just fine. I'm going to get into some spoilers for Inquisition in this review, and some very minor spoilers for the first hour or so of Veilguard. You've been warned.

Look, I'm a software engineer myself. When I play this game, I can tell that the team behind it worked WONDERS behind the scenes. This is one of the single most stable AAA games released in years -- It's definitely way more stable than Inquisition was when it was released. I've yet to encounter any serious bugs. The frame pacing is stellar. Even with Ultra Ray Tracing enabled, the game just RUNS. It's a technical marvel what they've been able to do with Frostbite -- an engine that used to have a reputation for being impossible to work with if you weren't making a Battlefield game. On a technical level, this product is really something to be proud of.

But we don't come to Dragon Age for its technical prowess, do we? I haven't played much yet, so I'm going to give this game a chance. If by the end of the game it manages to change my mind, I'll come up and update this review. But, ultimately, this game has fumbled the story on a fundamental level, and I think most Dragon Age fans are going to come away frustrated.

Your character comes out of nowhere. Literally nowhere. That gameplay demo that they showed off a couple months back? That is the start of the game. Nothing happens before you. You're already buddies with Varric. You're already on board with the core conflict of the game. The game makes no effort to set up any reason that YOU, Rook, specifically have an investment in this conflict beyond "Saving The World."

In Inquisition, and Dragon Age: Origins, you were an unwilling participant in the events that make you a hero. In Origins, you were living a mostly happy life until something goes horribly wrong, and you're forced to run away with the Gray Wardens. Then they all die, and you're left the only person left who can save the world.

In Inquisition, you were an attendee at a summit between the Chantry and Mages that was trying to resolve the conflict of Dragon Age 2 (Which I'm leaving out of this discussion because its status among the community is...complicated). The summit is blown to pieces, and you're left with a rift to the veil on your hand as tears begin to open up all over the world. You're the only person with the ability to close these rifts, and so you have to step up and do something. And even if you weren't the only one, you have the mystery of what happened to you as a driving factor.

In Veilguard? Well, you're just kind of there. Presumably Varric dug you out of a gutter somewhere, started doing some missions with you, and by the time the game starts you are somehow aware of everything that's going on and are fully on board with your role in stopping it all.

And...That's BAFFLING to me. Dragon Age isn't like Mass Effect. They've never carried over the protagonist between games, but to account for that, they ensured that the core conflict of each game was uniquely yours. You were living out a new chapter in the history of Thedas. Your decisions in previous games helped set the stage for you, but you had your OWN motivations for doing what you were doing.

In the Veilguard, the conflict isn't Rook's. It's the Inquisitor's. Solas was one of the inquisitor's closest friends and confidants, and he went on an entire globe-spanning adventure with them in order to save the world. Then, after you've done so...you realize that he was behind everything all along. He was secretly an immortal god of the Elves that created the veil to seal away his fellow gods, tearing magic out of the world and rendering everyone -- and most notably his fellow Elves -- mortal. Thousands of years later, he regrets what he has done and wants to unsever the world and return it to the wonderous state it was in before. He fumbles that at first, and the villain of the main game gets ahold of the MacGuffin that he was going to use to do that...But when you stop him, Solas is now free to pursue other avenues to achieve his goals -- at the cost of countless lives. But he hadn't counted on coming to know you. In finding your companionship.

In the closing act of Inquisition, you are left helplessly confronting Solas as he lays out everything that he is planning, and then he leaves you there to sit with that betrayal. If you are an elf woman, and you romanced Solas, the scene is particularly powerful -- You realize at the same time that Solas is the god that your people abhor, and the person that set in motion the events that set your life ablaze. But you still love him. And you beg him to listen to you, and find another way. But then he leaves. And you swear to follow.

----

And then you don't. Some new smuck does. Bioware has made the decision to continue the conflict from Inquisition, with all of the emotional baggage that comes with it, but they remove all of the people that were involved in that conflict and have something to say about it aside from a handful of returning characters that seem pretty minor so far. This random new smuck is the one confronting Solas for what he did. This random new smuck is the one to chase him down and stop him. And it feels extremely hollow. The story that they are trying to tell is BEGGING for the Inquisitor to be the main character. And I think the developers realize that. In the first 10 minutes of the game, when you confront Solas for the first time...YOU don't do anything, Varric does. Why? Because, however tenuous, Varric has SOME history with Solas, and you have none. You can't confront him because none of that pain is yours...And honestly, not much of it is Varric's either. This game is BEGGING for the Inquisitor to be the one standing there, trying to talk him down.

But for whatever reason, they shot themselves in the foot and made what could have been an incredibly powerful story incredibly hollow by having some random unknown be the person to tie off those threads. Hell, even if they didn't want to bring the Inquistor back, they could have at least spent SOME TIME setting up your character's motivations for being there. Maybe Solas' plans intersect with your life in some way, and now you're the next unwilling participant in your own Dragon Age adventure. But they didn't even do that much. You're some dude that Varric scooped up off the street and set to work solving his problems...And you don't even get to see that much. You're just there. You have a mission. You're a badass. You may have never met him, but you sure do know that this Solas guy needs to be stopped.

I've only played the intro so far, but I felt so incredibly burned by how they decided to set up this game that I feel like it's going to color my thoughts about it going forward. They needed to:

A. Make Solas tangential to the adventure, and give your character his own inciting incident and role in this world.

OR

B. Make this game a direct sequel to Inquisition, and the Inquisitor the main character.

Instead they tried to mash together a little from column A and column B, and made something that is SO far all around disappointing.

I really hope that this was just an extremely bad introduction to the game and that it gets better. If it does, I'll update this review. But I'm honestly really bummed. This isn't how I wanted the follow up to Dread Wolf to go.
 

FlaffWaffle
851 products in account
37
7,319 people found this review helpful
89 people found this review funny 229

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Careful, even tough it's listed as Steam Deck verified it does not work. I have all settings on minimum but the game always crashes in the first cutscene. Unplayable.
 

kamuiben
0
11,743 people found this review helpful
124 people found this review funny 1,243

Not Recommended
3.8 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I'm a diehard dragon age/bioware fan, i've been playing all their games since neverwinter nights and jade empire.
Dragon age origins was a masterpiece, the sequel was great(i dont mind the action gameplay) and i enjoyed inquisition.

But i'm 2 hours in, and a few problems already arise.
The world has dissappeared from this game, every character feels like they went to the same school, same village, we're just running on crash bandicoot tracks, every companion is joking even though the world is ending, and people are supposedly dying everywhere.

I hope this gets more dragon-agey, but initial impression is bad, the immersion is not there yet.

I feel out of place with this character, a nobody who just happens to make friends and meet every npc from the previous games x.x feels like cheap cameos in a railroaded movie, rather than characters you can have a meaningful interaction with.

What's this "starting out as an allknowing hero" when every dragon age game has been a game about slowly being introduced to the world through your character. It feels like Rook might aswell have been the inquisitor from DA:I, since he/she is so determined to save the world, despite having no real connection to it.

At this point i feel like assassin's creed has better dialogue options and choices.
 

Sneez
0
3,411 people found this review helpful
36 people found this review funny 268

Not Recommended
7.0 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
I really hate it. I'm 7 hours in, I've avoided reviews and videos in order to give the game it's fair shot, but I regret buying this game. It plays like a child's game, the new art style is giving me the uncanny valley effect, and I don't care about any of these characters. Every fight is tedious and boring, and as gorgeous as the world is, it feels empty because of how little you interact with it and how very linear the game is. There is no free roaming on the same scale as the other games, no fun little NPC interactions, and it's been painfully sanitized to the point where I forget it isn't rated E. It doesn't feel like a dragon age game, I feel like I'm watching a badly done Disney cartoon while Bioware is holding my hand and spoon feeding me air and condescension. I usually finish a game before I review, but I just can't force myself to keep playing this, which breaks my heart after the solid 10 year wait. I've opened this game twice. I just wanted to speed run through the last quest I was doing because I truly and from the bottom of my heart did not want to play this game, which is not something that happens very often.
 

FistFightingAvocad0
47
1,104 people found this review helpful
61 people found this review funny 127

Not Recommended
63.2 hrs on record
Posted: 14 February
It's got reasonably fun combat and traversal mechanics which are shackled to a dialogue-heavy RPG with weak writing, characterisation and plot.

There's a persistent claim from the usual suspect that the game is "woke" - when actually the politics of the game are those of a corporate diversity seminar at Goldman Sachs,

The 'woke' criticism dances around the real problem with Veilguard: the writing is tonally not conducive to fantasy, and just comes across as absurd. Your relationship to your companions is that of an earnest HR manager: they come to you with the difficulties they have that prevent them achieving self-actualisation in their workplace. One companion has personal difficulties with his colleagues. Another feels he is struggling to juggle his fatherhood duties to a griffin with his profesisonal obligations. When a mighty barbarian warrior came to me to discuss their challenges with their mother and their gender identity - my genuine reaction was "Sorry this isn't an appropriate issue for your line manager to be involved in"

This tonal problem defangs the world profoundly - you can't do cutesy wholesome tenderqueer earnestness when the character is ostensibly a demon-possessed assassin for a crime family. without veering into complete absurdity. The darkness of Dragon Age Veilguard - in which a body-horror eldrith god is overunning the world with cosmic disease - is endlessly undermined by "that happened" Joss Whedon quippiness.
 

Corey
17
1,733 people found this review helpful
13 people found this review funny 101

Not Recommended
48.7 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
The combat was fun for a time but for a RPG the dialogue and writing ruins the entire game. Its obvious to see the writers have no life experience to draw from since much of the story feels as if it was generated by an AI.

The world is falling apart around you and everyone is unbearably nice about it. Should you choose the "evil" option on the dialogue wheel (which is just pragmatism), characters will go as far as to apologise on your behalf should you be too mean.

There is no sense of urgency in the world and the first major choice in the game came at completely the wrong time. It's impossible to spoil the story, as its terrible, but you are given a choice, between companions and cities. Which one will you help? However the writers, voice artists or world building made no effort to create any attachments to one or the other. Enough to make you hover over the uninstall button and wish you got this game on EA Play.

You are in a fantasy world that is open for you to explore. However the developers decided to use only exposition after exposition after more exposition to explain this world to you. Between this exposition dialogue you and your companions will constantly pat each other on the back and lie to each other about how awesome the other is.

Class choices are boring and the abilities of your companions makes you miss the older games that allowed you to control them directly. For instance I wanted a griffon and the abilities it came with but I am forced to drag around a boring character if I want to access that. Companions are only good for their combo abilities. They will often disengage targets or the enemies they do target will still attack you.

There are many things I could nitpick at, like the warden elf with a cleft lip speaking french randomly or any number of inconsistencies.

If you do want to waste your time. Get this in a sale.
 

Truman
2
2,553 people found this review helpful
26 people found this review funny 168

Not Recommended
77.7 hrs on record
Posted: 11 November, 2024
As a die-hard Dragon Age fan, I’ve seen fanfics treat the lore with more respect. Major reveals that should have felt epic ended up watered down and shallow - like someone’s first attempt at fanfiction. Fifteen years of world-building, gone up in flames... Despite my love for the series, greed undermined the quality. It’s honestly not worth the price, especially after waiting 10 years. If you're set on trying it, hold off until it’s heavily discounted. Better yet, replay the previous games. This one doesn't do justice to the legacy.
 

Banda
295 products in account
17
1,381 people found this review helpful
11 people found this review funny 109

Not Recommended
101.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 January
Well, I beat it... The combat was fun, sure, but at the end of the day this just can't be called a 'Dragon Age' game. It's a generic fantasy adventure game and not even a true RPG. There are very, very few choices that actually matter and have any impact on the outcome of your story (maybe like 5 in the entirety of the game) and there's really only one narrative path to follow unlike the previous games, so there's not really any point to re-playing as a different faction or race to see content you might have missed out on. There isn't any! I really tried to keep an open mind going into it but the lack of Worldstates carrying over is really felt throughout as you play through the story. Certain characters from previous games have also been entirely removed in favor of establishing a main 'cannon'. The cities and landscapes look beautiful, but the character models are cartoonish and the dialogue is even more childish, cliche and cringey than your average Marvel movie. Your companions constantly under-react to lore drops and the lore drops are poorly executed, with far too much 'telling' rather than 'showing'.

The culture and cultural nuances of Thedas are almost completely absent, and in many scenes and story missions the dialog and story being told acts as if Rook isn't even there. The experience is very much like watching a trashy CW tv show that was given way too high of a budget for what they gave us in return. Certain characters like Isabela are completely unrecognizable. In 100 hours I was also never able to get past the ridiculous looking darkspawn 'ghouls' and Demons have basically been removed from the game. The companions shout 'demons' when entering combat with 'demons' all the time, but what you are actually fighting are undead skeletons and hooded spirits. Pride Demons have no faces. There are a few ogres. You get to fight a lot of red boil covered ghoul looking darkspawn that remind you of Left 4 Dead zombies. That's pretty much the extent of the enemy models (besides humanoids) and none of them instill the same fear and ambiance that the previous games darkspawn and demons did.

The dev's trying to say that this game has the 'best romance' in any of their games is also an outright lie. The companion quests are incredibly shallow compared to both previous DA games and Mass Effect games. It feels like several steps/missions were skipped and the companions suddenly start acting like they've become Rook's BFF somewhere in the middle to end of the second act when I felt like I barely knew who these characters were and Rook hadn't even had very much interaction with them yet. The romances are all severely underdeveloped with the exception of Emmerich, followed by Davrin who still needed a bit more. Lucanis feels blatantly unfinished and has more chemistry with his beloved Antivan Coffee than Rook. Shepard in Mass Effect 2 gives you more feels just sadly staring at a photo of Kaiden than what you get with Lucanis (lol). The most painful part of it all is that there are so many moments where you can see what the game could have been, and how it wasted it's potential to explore the actual world of Thedas and add to the overarching story and experience. That's not even taking into account Joplin, which is what the game should have been and was the game all of us wanted. Instead Bioware traded in what they were best at (immersive narratives and storytelling) to become mediocre at combat. And let me tell you... while the player combat is fun, the companions take several steps back in terms of combat usability. Their combo skills can be powerful when you direct them, but the companions themselves lack the ability to take out enemies on their own. Throughout the entire game I would consistently work on wiping out a mob, then turn around to see where my companions were and they would BOTH be fighting the same one enemy they were when the combat started and not even have it down to half health! I might as well have been playing the game solo, especially given how little interaction Rook has with them.

There are a few high points in the game that remind you of what Dragon Age is supposed to be, like the Siege of Weisshaupt, the Grey Wardens faction, some of the silly codex's you find out in the world, learning more about the Dwarves, Varric, Solas just generally being his a$$hole self, Assan, Manfred and the little bit of Nevarra that we get. But there are too many more low points like Rivain, Tevinter, inconsistent and mangled lore, absent culture and lore (the Chantry, slavery, templars, racism, etc), the bland and forgettable musical soundtrack, disconnected companions and Rook, poorly executed attempts to be gender inclusive, one dimensional adult companions that act and speak like teenagers, lack of agency or true choice (all of the dialog options on the wheel basically sound the same, you can't be anything except nice), lack of player worldbuilding...the third act (which is often said to be the 'best' act) actually felt incredibly rushed with many paths on the maps leading to empty dead ends, random enemies that didn't seem to fit the area, only one narrative path, on top of the horrendous cutscenes of the companion characters doing meaningless Marvel-style posturing in the final battle... I could go on and on... Basically almost everything that made a Dragon Age game feel like a Dragon Age game is absent from the game.

As a generic fantasy game I'd give it a 6.5-7/10, but as a Dragon Age game it gets a very generous 4/10. Will likely never play again and instead replay the first three games again to cleanse my heart of this massive disappointment and nightmare before putting my favorite series of all time to rest.

Final Edit:
Just wanted to come back here with a final edit as I approach the end of my latest run of Inquisition. I have honestly found myself becoming even more upset and angry the more time passes since I finished Veilguard, and the more I reflect on the game and the stark differences between it and the rest of the series. Veilguard is a game that feels like it was made by people that hate the Dragon Age series and wanted to make a Marvel game for players who have never even touched a Dragon Age game. Not only is the overall tone between the first three games and Veilguard so different that it doesn't even feel like it's part of the same universe, but the lack of love and respect for the series shown throughout the game feels purposeful and hateful. Bioware and EA removed everything that made players invested in these games and defined the series identity, alienated and insulted the core fanbase that made them successful by erasing and invalidating their worldstates to establish a main cannon (one that pleases no one, erases some characters entirely and leaves many subplots discarded and unexplored), outright lied about the game's content and quality on several occasions, lost or fired all of their best writers, and the CEO of EA is now blaming Veilguard's failure on 'lack of live service components'. DELUSIONAL. They have learned NOTHING from this experience and no one should have any expectations for any game Bioware puts out in the future. The company has been ruined and they no longer have the people, passion or skills needed to create the high quality and immersive rpg's they did in the past. These companies are apparently committed to failure and don't know how to learn from their past mistakes with Andromeda, Anthem and now Veilguard (and the literal graveyard of other failed live-service games the industry has seen).

So my recommendation vehemently stands, I don't recommend this game. I recommend others play the first three games instead. The first three Dragon Age games tell a wonderful, interactive player-driven and directed story in a format that we may never see again. We can only hope that the resurgence in interest and sales of these games encourages other companies to revive the genre in the future.
 

MOUSE
0
950 people found this review helpful
18 people found this review funny 73

Not Recommended
83.4 hrs on record
Posted: 12 December, 2024
LOOK HOW THEY MASSACRED MY BOY

tldr; if you are a long-term fan STAY AWAY, don't let this game ruin your Thedas too. And if you're new here, there are better RPGs out there, this is NOT worth your money or time. Lots of "meh"s.

Dragon Age: Veilguard – where the franchise's legacy goes to die... If you’ve ever wondered what would happen if a Dragon Age game had all the depth of a kiddie pool, this is your answer. Sure, it’s an action RPG, but if you’re hoping for something even remotely close to what made Dragon Age great, prepare to be let down.

Let’s start with the lore—because who doesn’t love a good betrayal? The game completely erases everything that made the Dragon Age universe interesting. Racial tensions? Gone. You can still play as elves and Qunari, but don’t worry, their history and struggle won’t be weighing you down. Slavery? Meh, doesn’t matter anymore. The deep complexities of a world where elves are oppressed and Qunari are locked in centuries of war? Apparently, those were just too complicated for this Disney game, so we’ll just toss them out the window. Pick your race, get a tiny bit of unique dialogue and move on.

Gone are the days when your decisions in previous Dragon Age games actually mattered. The impact of past choices? Sorry not here. The world of Veilguard feels so disconnected —like it’s trying to be a Dragon Age game but not really bothering to remember what came before it. Decisions you made in 1, 2 AND Inquisition —where the MAIN VILLAIN of Veilguard came from? Well, forget about them, because none of that is relevant now. The game’s world-building is just a vague outline of the Dragon Age universe with no respect for the rich history of the series.

And let’s not forget the dialogue system. It’s basically a choose-your-own-adventure but none of the choices matter. You get a dialogue wheel that lets you pick responses that have absolutely nothing to do with what your character actually says. It’s a masterclass in not letting you make meaningful choices. Oh, and the voice acting? Think of it like a motivational speaker giving a TED talk—flat, lifeless, and completely lacking in emotional depth. The banter between companions? Let’s just say you’ll be begging for a little awkward silence after the 50th pep talk with toxic positivity.

The pacing is... something. Act 2 is a marathon of side content, designed to grind you down until you start questioning all your life choices. You’ll feel like you’re playing a game made by someone who’s read a book about RPGs but never actually played one. You’ll hear your companions repeat what you just saw in case your brain stopped working for five seconds. It’s as if the developers thought, “What if the player is too dumb to remember what just happened? Let’s remind them every two minutes!” WE MUST DEFEAT THE ANCIENT ELVEN GODS ELGAR'NAN AND GHILAN'NAIN!!!

Veilguard tries so desperately to be all things to all people, but ends up pleasing no one. It sacrifices the depth and complexity that made Dragon Age special in an attempt to be more accessible. It borrows elements from action games like God of War —but somehow doesn’t do any of them nearly as well— and hopes that’s enough to satisfy Dragon Age fans. Spoiler alert: it’s not.

The game’s a confused mess of half-baked ideas, watered-down lore, and combat that doesn’t quite know what it wants to be. Enemies are too spongy, characters are too one dimensional, writing is horrible. I could go on and on... Maybe a small group of people will enjoy it but for anyone who has any attachment to the Dragon Age franchise, this game is a sad, sad shadow of what used to be.
 

hymntothesea
3,497 products in account
20
2,706 people found this review helpful
68 people found this review funny 371

Not Recommended
103.5 hrs on record
Posted: 17 November, 2024
To preface, I played this game start to finish. ALL the way through. I did ALL the background quests, side quests, faction quests, companion quests, and damn near 100% of the map-based content. I didn't skip cutscenes and dialogues because I wanted to feel like a part of the story.

Do I recommend it as a sequel to the Dragon Age series? No.
Do I recommend this as a standalone game? Also, no.
Do I recommend this game period? Not really.


Let's start with the good:
- Combat is visceral, entertaining, and powerful. By far the best in the franchise and the big reason why I finished it out.
- Leveling mechanics are solid and reminiscent of Path of Exiles with available skill trees for each of the 3 classes.
- Items improve, meaning you can keep good stuff and tailor your kit to your specific playstyle.
- Companions, mechanically, and their abilities help to carry fights on and allow for powerful combination moves.
- Character generator is pretty great. Armours, while overdone at times, are cool.

And now, the bad:
- Armours are a bit over the top.
- I wish I could change colour sets for my gear myself, rather than having the same six faction-based colour schemes.
- The rest of the game. The writing, the dialog, the story, all of it.
- No, seriously, that's it.

To preface, none of my critiques stem from the buzzword hot topics like "Character Sexuality," "IRL Political Messages," etc. I genuinely don't care about those. My issues come from how awful the game was in every other regard.


The story plays out with no serious input from the player aside from what brand of good guy they want to play: Positive, Snarky, or Gruff, with occasional opportunities to delve into Whiny, Angsty, and Angry. The companions aren't believable and their storylines are "Rook! I need your help to kill XXX bad guy from my off-screen past that way I can succeed at saving the world!" While the main storyline suffers from being boring, horribly predictable, and untrue to the lore built up throughout the franchise.

The writing is an insult to the players, as though the writers are afraid the audience won't understand the "careful nuances" of the story unless they spell it out and say it out loud a dozen or more times. The issue is, there is NO nuance. It boils down to "Good Guys Good, Bad Guys Bad. Good Guys Stop Bad Guys." All of this leads to the same three-option ending from Mass Effect 3. I felt like I was being coddled and spoon-fed the plot lines every single time.

"Oh no! There's a traitor among our ranks! Who could it POSSIBLY be?! Is it: A) Your Trusted Companion Who Can Do No Wrong, B) Generic Faction NPC #35, or C) Stabby McBackStabber the Unscrupulous? Hmmmmmm, time to spend three hours doing side quests along seven parts of the story to find out who! *GASP!* It was Stabby McBackStabber the Unscrupulous the WHOLE TIME! How could we have POSSIBLY seen this coming?!"
The worst part is, that's not just *one* storyline, that's about half a dozen. For those going, "Oh yeah? Name them!"
1) Mayor of D'Mata's Crossing turns out to be the bad guy and, if you choose to release him, goes to the Venatori (unless you're a Warden)
2) The Crows Part One: Illario is a Stinker.
3) The Crows Part Two: Governor Ivenci is a Stinker.
4) Knight Commander Lenos is in league with the Venatori. More news at 11.
5) Gloom Howler turns out to be a Warden. Shocker.
6) Solas is a Stinker (option dependent)

Moreover, they sanitize *everything* from its moral greyness. In DA:O you link up with, among many other characters, a blatant human supremacist, an assassin with no moral scruples, a witch who killed men in the swamps, a Qunaari who confesses to having murdered an entire family because the Qun demanded, and a dwarf who... I mean. He's a Dwarf. My point is, there's plenty of "We have to put the differences aside here to fight the greater foe."

In Veilguard, none of that is true.

- The Necromancers (Mourn Watch) EXCLUSIVELY use willing spirits to ONLY reanimate the corpses of WILLING dead folks.
- The Crows perform absolutely NO murders during the story that are dubious, and don't seem to ever do it for money on-screen; in fact, the ONLY mention about their murder-for-hire business is a single sidebar dialog in the Lighthouse between Davrin and Lucanis, where Davrin brings it up and Lucanis finds an easy explanation for why it's OK.
- The Ancient Relic Thieves (Veiljumpers) aren't really "thieves," they're just there to protect the woods and LEARN from the archives. All that previous story stuff about Dalish Elves murdering Humans in the Arlathan Forest in order to protect themselves due to fears of the Trail of Tea-- Sorry, the Long March? Yeahhhh, we're gonna conveniently pretend that never happened.
- The "Ruthless Mercenary Treasurehunters" aren't so ruthless, for some reason. In fact, they explicitly hire a Dalish Chieftain to sort through the relics they find so they can "rightly return them" to the Dalish Elves instead of... Y'know, selling them for fat stacks like actual ruthless mercenaries would do.
- The Dwarves that we meet don't believe in losing caste, or if they do then it isn't religiously enforced and they couldn't really care less.
- Every paperboy and passerby in Minrathous knows where the Shadow Dragons' Headquarters is because they are THE worst "underground spy network" to EVER exist, but nothing bad ever comes of this (also Neve is awful and I wish she died from the Blight)


In closing, nothing about the writing, dialogue, or options therein make me feel invested into the story. It's cookie-cutter generic, it's dull, it isn't remotely thought provoking, and it's sloppily executed. But the combat is fun as hell, so I'll probably play again just for that reason.

P.S.: We stan Shield Toss, Ride or Die for Davrin & Assan.
 

Jack Oat
65
335 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 14

Not Recommended
149.4 hrs on record
Posted: 6 February
Dear EA, this game failed not because it lacked multiplayer, but because the story, writing, and tone were all over the place. Thank you.
 

The Failguard
0
959 people found this review helpful
12 people found this review funny 49

Not Recommended
33.7 hrs on record
Posted: 6 November, 2024
Beautiful graphics. Gameplay is a solid 10/10. Story is massively, cruelly disappointing. As someone who's beaten all three previous games several times each, I'm devastated to say I can't enjoy this one.
 

ashllewelyn
0
1,149 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 26

Not Recommended
113.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Some parts of the story have been cool, but the writing is incredibly pedantic, the characters have to vocalize Every. Single. Thing, and continually state the obvious and exposite and repeating what has already been said or implied.

Honestly, I don't think I've played a game with writing so bad that it made me actually want *less* banter between companions, but here we are.

Also, one of the early characters talks like a kindergarten teacher.

And the voice acting is pretty bad. There is a noticeable difference between the voice acting for new characters and for those who were in the other games.

The art style, particularly the character and monster design, is also pretty terrible, though some of the environments look good. I think it wouldn't but me so much if the writing was at least good, but between the writing and the art, it feels like it was made for children. I legit burst out laughing when I saw my first dark spawn.

The character motion and fighting feel weirdly floaty.

Character proportions are really weird thanks to the word art style so everyone looks bizarre and stumpy.
 

Nazira
96 products in account
0
1,385 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 84

Not Recommended
66.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
I haven't finished it. I played through 70% (and being very thorough with the side content) and can't anymore. The writing is terrible, the companions talk like villagers in Stardew Valley or similar casual sims (cutesy conversations about nothing), the writers are killing the lore built over previous three Dragon Age games, there is no atmosphere, sense of urgency, immersion. If you felt truly invested in characters or stories from previous DA games, this game will actively invalidate your previous choices and make your stories meaningless.

I do not recommend this as a Dragon Age game. It is an OK generic action RPG, but as a part of the series, it is terrible.
 

stupid_idea
176 products in account
0
1,459 people found this review helpful
10 people found this review funny 102

Not Recommended
42.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
I was looking forward to this game for a really long time. I'm very disappointed that they dropped the ball this hard. I probably wont be buying the new Mass Effect when it comes out. I'm done with game companies hiring people that aren't interested in making a story in the world that has been established. If you want to make your own game do that. Don't barge into someone else's story and rewrite it the way you would have done it.
 

Baldilox
0
352 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 25

Not Recommended
42.2 hrs on record
Posted: 27 January
The reason Veilguard is not doing well is because this is not a good game, but rather an okay game at best. It had potential that was not executed well, the characters have interesting concepts, yet the writing that lacks any sort of conflict fails to deliver a satisfying conclusion to any of their obstacles. How do you make a dude possessed by a demon stale is beyond me, but we will circle back to that.

I wanted to give this game a fair shot, overlooking that the graphics I saw in the trailer left me a bit sceptical. The big heads are a bit off-putting in this setting and remind me of Disney Dreamlight Valley which definitely should have a different tone than a Dragon Age game. Thankfully, you can make your head somewhat smaller in the character creation. The customizing choices are numerous, though some sliders barely do anything apart from giving you an illusion of a choice, just like the dialogue. Still, you can make some interesting looking characters and the hair physics does look great.

Then you are dropped in a beautiful environment, even if clashing with the art style of the characters. The exploration of these zones is fun at first, but it quickly gets extremely repetitive, same puzzles over and over, no exciting loot apart from occasionally interesting codex entry. Perhaps one reason why finding new loot seems mundane is that your armor is just one slot - the entire outfit. No mixing and matching, apart from that being a bit boring by itself, it naturally makes the number of items lower therefore finding armor in a chest is just… eh, same armor but +1 I guess. With the exploration part of the game I do have to mention the character movement. At the start, I explained this to my partner as “when you are dreaming and you are trying to run, yet you are super slow”. I honestly think my W button is now pushed lower on my keyboard, trying to make the character move less sluggishly. If there’s anything worse than the movement it is the jumping, it seems incredibly random, how far or high the character can jump, if you are well aligned, they will make that jump even if they land way off, they just… SNAP towards the other platform.

This brings us to combat. I do wonder why even have ranged class that relies on charged arrows if you make it so that the player holds majority of the aggro. I was waiting to finally get a warrior, thinking they will get the attention off my character, but no, warrior gets taunt every 30 or so seconds in an area around them for a little while and that is it. Oh and also it only works on the lesser enemies. If you decide to follow my mistake of playing Veil Ranger, you will not have any option to charge your ranged attack. With the sheer number of enemies tossed at you, you will be rolling around like a deranged raccoon all over the place, in hopes to land an arrow, and you’ll be happy to land the non charged one. This is the first point where I feel like the potential was there for an interesting change to what the combat used to be and was not executed well. You get three spells plus ultimate, you have to dodge/parry, use companion spells, manage your potions, it seems a lot to do but eventually this gets boring because apart from the few bosses present, most of the enemies simply use range/normal/heavy attack. The game throws the same enemies at you over and over, if this is the type of combat chosen, there should be more to it than slash and roll, give the enemies some varied abilities. At the end (no spoilers) you are fighting waves and waves of the same enemies, no mini bosses, except those that have slightly more HP. I got so bored I lowered the difficulty just so I could get through it faster. Speaking of bosses, it is incredibly disappointing to fight a dragon, only after you kill it, WOOP now there’s TWO dragons. Then you have this monster with one head, you kill it and WOOP now there’s TWO heads, and guess what, THAT’S RIGHT, ANOTHER HEAD! Similarly you get to fight a slightly bigger creature and then later you get to fight the TWO of the same creature. This is not something that should be done more than once.

I genuinely wanted to give Veilguard a chance, Dragon Age Origins was the first RPG I have ever bought for myself back when I barely spoke English. So if anything I thought Veilguard at least deserves a chance - that is why I have over 40 hours in the game, I tried to engage in the side quests, hoping they will show more of the lore of the separate zones, but most of the quests are just fillers or they do more of telling but showing nothing. Then we have the character stories which carry the same preachy tone of how we are all part of the team and we have to help the team to beat the gods because if team is not teaming then the team can’t team (I wish I was joking). The romance Dragon Age games are known for is not present in this game. Every flirty option you get, some of which in really weird moments, get you barely any response. There’s no good banter, when characters do clash a tiny bit, their differences are settled quickly and suddenly they are fine with one another, even if they had issues such as one of the characters being a mercenary ‘you kill people for money’ turned into ‘actually, you are not that bad’ (again, I wish I was joking). You can’t interact with the characters outside of their quests. At this point, just don’t have the romance there at all. Majority of the characters had interesting concepts, but none were told well. Lucanis and his demon were just there, drinking coffee, Davrin and his troubles were mostly skipped over, Taash’s identity struggle, with gender or origins, it all could’ve been told so well and built up to all these satisfying conclusions but it just all feels incredibly forced and unnatural. Unfortunately, it is not just the side content that suffers from the bad dialogues. If you have a five second memory, you are in luck, everything will be spelled out for you in an info dump and then repeated several times. It irks me when games treat me like an one brain cell organism and that is precisely what Veilguard is doing, lecturing or info dumping. Everything is told instead of shown. No natural conversations, it all feels like an odd experiment where everyone is forced to smile or else.

I am incredibly disappointed, and I am so so sad the devs don’t seem to listen to any actual constructive critiques people have for the game but chuck the lack of success to a few people online who parrot some learned phrases. I’ve played this game, start to finish and it is simply not a good game. I had to force myself to finish it, I am uninstalling it and I don’t think I’ll ever replay this. Please do better.
 

Renmora
112 products in account
0
1,648 people found this review helpful
20 people found this review funny 90

Not Recommended
78.9 hrs on record
Posted: 25 November, 2024
Finally finished this game. Achieved nearly all the achievements for it and got the ending I was hoping to get. I am greatly disappointed in this game. I cannot believe my beloved Dragon Age franchise did this as their grand finale. This game really tried to destroy much loved memories I had from previous titles. There were moments that shinned and at times I thought that there was hope for the game, especially early on. But then the blight really destroyed BioWares mind. Spoilers Below:

Character Customisation:
POSITIVE: Great hair physics and nice to see lighting used to make sure your character looks great.

NEGATIVE: As someone who enjoys as much freedom to customise your character and appreciating all the extra details, I felt so under represented with the customisation features. I like my characters being a more curvy figure to my own and I love seeing how clothing in fantasy worlds fit this aesthetic. The fact that my chest can only be a B cup is highly inappropriate and non inclusive for a game that prides itself on inclusivity. If you are going to make it fair, make customisation for everyone. The Sims even does it better.

Environment:
POSITIVE: I was well crafted and every area was interesting and told the story of the location.

NEGATIVE: None.


Combat:
POSITIVE: The combat was excellent. I actually tired each style of class before settling on a mage. The smooth movement mixed with the wide array of spells and play styles was fantastic. All the directional icons where a bit much but you can customise that which helped with engaging more in combat. The combination work of your team to weaken or detonate an enemy brought a great element of fun and suspense in some more trying fights.

NEGATIVE: I swear I have never fought so many dragons in my life. I was expecting these to be rare and a really big challenge but I finished all of them early on as their move style was exactly the same. Quite disappointing when an Ogre was tougher than a Dragon.

Story:
POSITIVE: It was nice to see so many familiar faces...

NEGATIVE: Where do I even begin. It is terrible. I couldn't even write something this bad. There is no drive with this team, there is no choice. It is a friendship simulator disguised at a Dragon Age game. I wanted to try some evil options, I wanted choices that made an actual difference and I wanted to convince or make enemies of other, choose my companions and piss off the companions I didn't like. I couldn't stand half of my team and the ones I did like were tolerable only because of how cool they could have been. There are lore elements in here that are inconsistent to other games and character morals that we have witnessed in other games complete ruined by incompetent writing. I almost punched my monitor when Morrigan started telling me her 'changed' outlook on life and her 'new' story (PS: WHERE IS HER SON?). Everything I loved in the prior games was destroyed by terrible writing and all they had to do to fix it was not force us to hate Solas (Leave Solas Alone :P). If you love Dragon Age lore and the story so far, just skip this.

Romance:
POSITIVE: At least there was romance in this game.

NEGATIVE: I don't think the writers know what romance and suspense is. They nailed it in the other games. You build up admiration with another character through flirting (some of that was so badly written in DAV that I didn't believe it was even flirting), to then have a moment of confession (which usually happened on a date or during a fight), then there is 'passion' (secret meetings, snog sessions and more dates) and then a sweeping kiss or intimate scene before a big fight and finally an 'I love you' before a final fight. THIS GAME, it was flirt with everyone then confession (I romanced Lucanis and my confession was over him cooking me food - no actual confirmation of a confession) then sleep together... no 'I like you', first kiss, date or anything like that. There was no suspense and when they FINALLY hinted at a kiss it just ended and NEVER happened again. My first kiss with the person I was in a relationship with in game was just before the only intimate scene in game. The 'I love you' meant nothing as I felt like Rook was taken advantage of.

SOLAS:
My final comment is in regards to Solas. I romanced him when I first played DAI. I loved his story, I liked how he almost fell to the Inquisitor and in the DLC I was so excited to see what he would do. The fact that this game was trying to force me to hate him, loath him and even kill him made me angry. It was as if everything we learnt about him in DAI was ignored and he was just another elven god trying to destroy the world. There is even a moment in game where Rook states that she must kill Solas before killing the last boss. I sat there going 'Hes got the same goal as you, why the hell would you do that. Use him then decide what to do.' I, as a player, shouldn't be thinking that. If you play this game without any love for Solas it would be an easy story to tell. But man the writers tried hard to convince you otherwise and contradicted themselves while trying to do it.

CONCLUSION:
DAV was a game I am glad I played. But I wish it was the game it should of been. I finished it to finish the story of Solas. But my score went from a hopeful 7/10 at the start when I saw glimpses of potential that I was so desperate for. To finish the game with a 3/10. I am so frustrated with not only BioWare but their incompetent writers that ruined such an beloved story for their own greed. Ma lasa banal'ghilana!
 

The Falcon Punk
0
1,292 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 52

Not Recommended
34.0 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
If you want a story-rich RPG with an interesting narrative and companions, go play Baldur's Gate because this ain't it chief. It's a decent game with great art direction (when it comes to locations) and flashy combat. My advise: wait for this to go on sale. Can't recommend this at full price.
 

PapaBearBby
12
697 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 35

Not Recommended
57.6 hrs on record
Posted: 22 December, 2024
Dragon Age: The Veilguard is disappointing and riddled with flaws. While it delivers stunning visuals and solid technical performance, the gameplay, storytelling, and RPG elements fail to capture the magic of its predecessors. What could have been a worthy successor instead feels like a step backward for the series and Bioware as a whole.


Gameplay: The combat system is passable, with diverse character customization. However, the encounters feel tedious. Enemies often swarm you in gank-squad fashion, forcing constant dodging, moving, and flanking to create distance and use skills. The hitboxes feel off, and the over-the-top combat effects—flying elbows, colorful fireworks, explosions, and tornados—are distracting. It’s a departure from the more strategic and meticulous pace of past DA games. Party dynamics are almost nonexistent. Your companions don't take damage, barely deal any, and mainly serve to heal you or create debuffs/combos with limited skills. Once you figure out the two or so synergies, it’s rinse and repeat. Most skills are unremarkable, damage abilities feel indistinguishable, and every non-tank character has a heal. This oversimplification robs combat of depth. Outside of combat, gameplay revolves around revisiting semi-open environments. Prepare for endless backtracking. Progress unlocks new rooms and areas, often requiring repetitive tasks like placing elven artifacts on pylons to disable shields or slicing blight pustules in a specific order to open gates. These mechanics quickly become tiresome.

Storytelling: This is DA:V’s weakest point, and I agree with the criticism. Characters are barely distinguishable, defined more by hobbies (coffee, crime-solving, griffons, elven artifacts) than personality. The characters exhibit little to no growth in their personalities over the course of their character arcs, with the exception of Emmrich and his hissing skeleton Manfred. Your interactions feel like co-workers on a business trip, and the dialogue lacks substance. The writing leans heavily on Whedon-esque, Avengers-style humor, undercutting any serious moments. For example, after facing a major villain who’s just decimated an army, your character quips, “Oh, crap!” The tonal inconsistency is jarring, especially for an end-of-the-world scenario. The main cast acts chipper, barely acknowledging the devastation around them, while the broader world feels oddly detached. It undermines the dark, atmospheric tones of previous Dragon Age games.

RPG Elements: DA:V struggles as an RPG. Perhaps my least favouritie aspect of this game is it's loot and inventory system. The looting system is overly simplified, replacing true inventories and resource management with a Destiny/Assassin's Creed-style menus and looting. Gone are the days of managing encumbrance, preparing potions, and planning for quests through strategic resource management. What’s here feels like a downgrade, even compared to Inquisition. Player choices, another RPG staple, are shallow. Rook, your main character, is mostly predefined, and dialogue choices boil down to "empathetic," "sarcastic dad jokes," or "firm but soft." Choices lack moral complexity and have little impact on the story, apart from a few obvious moments. This feels like a massive step back from Bioware’s earlier games and an abandonment of their greatest strength

Positives: The artistic design is fantastic. The environments are stunning, capturing the grandeur of Minrathous and Treviso and the towering elven artifacts of Arlathan. Character design is gorgeous, and facial animations are a standout—much improved from Andromeda. The in-game, in-engine cinematics are some of the most impressive that I've ever seen. The character creator is exceptional, ensuring your protagonist fits seamlessly into every scene. The game is also well-optimized and relatively bug-free. Props to the art and technical teams.

Unfortunately, DA:V fails to live up to its predecessors, and I doubt it will resonate with long-time fans of the series. For me, this is likely the last Dragon Age game I’ll play. Bioware’s magic seems to have left the studio, and with it, my hope for the next Mass Effect.
 

MattJPH
1,083 products in account
0
2,137 people found this review helpful
15 people found this review funny 189

Not Recommended
13.3 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
Dragon Age: The Veilguard

The problem with Dragon Age: The Veilguard as a game isn’t about the presence or absence of any particular agenda. It’s not even about the shift away from the dark fantasy tone of the first game, as the BioWare director pointed out, saying that fans of the first game are no longer the primary audience, and therefore their voices don’t really matter much (even though early reviews by journalists mentioned a “return of BioWare,” and the developers themselves said they wanted to go back to their roots and regain fans’ trust).

How they plan to achieve that while doing the exact opposite of what fans ask for is a mystery to me. The game has a lot of flaws: boring characters, spoiling the main Dragon Age: Inquisition twist within the first 40 minutes (which was one of the main reasons I preordered the game, even though I had low expectations for its quality - at least the plot was intriguing). Overall, the game has become almost childish, as if it’s now rated PEGI 12.

The characters are completely uninteresting and lack any depth. The dialogue is just terrible, and as an RPG, it plays poorly. If it weren’t part of this franchise, I’d say it’s below average.

I also want to point out the discrepancy between the user score and the metascore on Metacritic (critics rate the game highly while players are, as usual, angry). Furthermore, for me, the mostly positive reviews on Steam are also surprising. I read positive reviews, and they literally say the game is average or below average, yet they give it a thumbs up!

This installment feels like a cheap Marvel production to me. Despite the mixed reception of Inquisition and its own controversial aspects, next to Veilguard, it now seems like a masterpiece.

The optimization is worth noting, but most of the time, you’re running through narrow, corridor-like locations, and aside from the occasional reflections, the graphics don’t seem much better than they were ten years ago in the previous game.
The combat has become purely action-oriented, without any turn-based elements, which is a matter of taste, though overall the combat feels energetic. However, the enemy design (including the darkspawn) now looks downright cartoonish and cringeworthy.

I’m someone who, in my own way, enjoyed both the second and third games and love the first one, but I consider this one not just the weakest but an outright mistake. The game lacks soul, it’s not engaging, and it feels like Starfield but in a fantasy world (bland and gray, despite its bright colors in design).
 

Wooohooo
982 products in account
0
591 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 18

Not Recommended
41.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
I'm a massive Dragon Age fan and I've loved them all since Origins, even 2, but after 11 hours in the Veilguard It saddens me to say that I can't help but feel disappointed. I bought this game against my better judgement in spite of the controversies and in spite of the scathing reviews from Skill Up and Mr Matty Plays because Dragon Age is my favourite gaming series. My first 3 hours were incredible and I was so happy that the game wasn't just not terrible, but actually good! However, after those frontloaded 3 hours, the cracks started to show and those cracks quickly turned into a gaping chasm of mediocrity and I started to realise those two creators told several truths in their reviews. I strongly recommend you check at least one of those out before you buy but, after my first 11 hours, these are MY initial thoughts:

The Good:

- Character Models: The stylised art was a point of apprehension for me but it grew on me within the first hour. Character models look great. It's easy to create a stunningly beautiful character in the CC and they look just as good in cutscenes which is already an improvement over previous titles. Hair options are awesome.

- The Performance: Flawless. On my 4080 with everything set to Ultra and all the Ray Tracing, I've had zero hiccups. And so far I've seen no bugs and experienced no crashes. It's been a while since I could say that about a AAA release.

- The Graphics: Environments look awesome. There was a puddle in the opening mission that blew me away. The reflections, the physics. Chef's kiss.

The Bad:

- Voice Acting: This is my biggest gripe with the game. It's just incredibly bad and the majority of NPC's have their lines delivered with little to no emotion. I hate talking to companions and NPCs. Neve's is particularly unforgivable given she's one of the first people you meet in the game. I checked out after meeting a character from the comics I had been looking forward to meeting in game for years. Her acting was so bad and her lines were delivered like an NPC quest giver in an MMO. This was the straw that broke the camel's back and caused me to turn off the game.

- The Writing: It leaves a lot to be desired. Conversations end abruptly as if the writer didn't know where it was going or simply where to take it and often left me asking, "that's it?". When my companions give their companion quest, they'll literally say one line of dialogue, giving my Rook no chance to respond and the conversation ends, and a quest is added to my journal. I feel like my Rook barely speaks and when she does, I feel no connection to her as a character. She feels like a passenger in her own story.

- Nuance:
Continuing my criticism of the writing I want to bring up self-doubt as it feels like all of my companions have it as does my Rook. The game has just begun and it feels like there's no reason for this. There was a scene early on where my Rook looked in a mirror and reminisced about her past. It became apparent she had self-esteem issues and there was an interesting option where I could talk about my tattoos. This would've been fine if the dialogue options didn't say something cliché like "this is part of who I am". As a tattooed person, this came across very forced and I've never once relied on my tattoos for self-esteem. I had a conversation with Varric where every line amounted to "I can't do this, Varric, I need advice". I wanted some degree of self confidence in my hero where doubt comes in later in the story due to a major setback. In Mass Effect Shepard began to doubt themself after Virmire, toward the latter part of the game. There was context for this because Virmire felt like a big failure and the bad guy got away. It then took the advice of a squadmate to uplift them and spur them to action. This common story beat instead takes place at the beginning of The Veilguard and it's jarring.

- Side Quests: I did one side quest and I really don't want to do another one again.

- Squad Balance: I picked a mage and I'm yet to recruit a single warrior. The game is linear and so far I have 2 mages, including my Rook, and 3 rogues, only one of which is melee focused. Did they assume everybody was going to pick Warrior? As a result my squad is imbalanced and I'm currently serving as my squad's tank. I'm forced to pick electric spells as a necessity because it's the only way I can prime detonations with the current selection party members. I'm particularly annoyed by this because I didn't want to RP as a lightning mage.

- Mission Structure: It's disjointed. At first it had the linearity of God of War then transitioned into what I seemed like it would be a Mass Effect 2 mission structure but it didn't quite land. It's something really weird that I can't explain and it doesn't feel enjoyable.

- Puzzles: Some puzzles do require more thinking than Matty and Skill Up gave the impression of. But I don't enjoy them and they feel like unnecessary additions. Not fun, more tedious than anything

- Previous Choices: Obviously being a fan of all previous games, my choices not carrying over is a huge negative that I was willing to look past if the game was good. So far nothing has been so great as to justify this baffling decision.

The Ugly:

- Combat: It's fantastic. Mage gameplay feels like a better Hogwarts Legacy and this is the best the mage class has felt in a Dragon Age game! I've played every single Dragon Age on Nightmare, but this one feels a lot easier. I don't feel like the game is well-balanced because there was an insane difficulty spike when I went on a mission to recruit one of the companions. After that mission it went back to being ridiculously easy again. It took me 4 hours before I felt like I needed to use a healing potion and it was 5 hours before I died for the first time. I don't know what to make of it so it goes here.

Conclusion:
If you're a fan of previous Dragon Age games, I don't feel like this game is for you. In fact I'm really not sure who it's for and I struggle giving it a recommendation. Many people seem to like it but my friends who are Dragon Age fans share many of my opinions. I played BG3 for 20 hours straight on release without realising, I was having so much fun. I remember going to bed and I couldn't wit to wake up and play it again. I managed to play 11+ hours in The Veilguard, and I went to bed disappointed and today I don't feel like playing it right now. I usually wait until completion before I write my reviews but I couldn't with this one. I will try again later and If I change my mind about the game down the line, I'll change my review, but as it stands, I do not recommend Dragon Age: The Veilguard
 

saintonthegame
343 products in account
3
1,055 people found this review helpful
12 people found this review funny 74

Not Recommended
54.7 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
Dragon Age the Veilguard may have the single worst writing ive seen in a video game in the last ten years.
The main character, rook, is deeply frustrating to play as and cannot help but insert a quip or say 'im sorry' in every conversation; there is no role play in this RPG you will play as Rook and you will like it. The companions all have a inherit personality trait, which is an interesting concept to make them unique. However, these traits are the ONLY thing that is apparent about them, the ADHD one is a stereotype, the gender non-conforming one constantly talks about it while not respecting other peoples identities. Everything this game does comes off as tone deaf and immature in the dialogue department. The overall story starts off as interesting and falls off a cliff instantly. There is no gradual climb to power, you are fighting gods with no growth to get there. The combat starts off amazingly fun, genuinely a great start, but the level system lacks the depth to change the playstyle, instead it mostly makes 'what you do better'. Which is fine, but after 20-40 hours the fact im playing the same as a level 10 character is wild.

All in all, pick this game up on a deep deep discount; the writing and dialogue is a massive sin against all RPGs.
 

Aizande
0
643 people found this review helpful 28

Not Recommended
41.8 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
I really can’t recommend this game.

The writing is frankly terrible —cringeworthy and overly simplistic, with clichés and tropes everywhere. There’s no real sense of danger or stakes, and the dialogue feels like it was lifted from a bad parody of a Marvel movie.

The companions I’ve encountered (I think I’ve met all but one) are actively annoying, and the voice acting for one or two is just plain bad. (neve) I dread any conversations with them because they’re so tedious.

The levels feel like the developers took all the wrong lessons from God of War: Ragnarok. Instead of borrowing the good elements—like solid storytelling and decent characters—they copied the level design and created environments that feel artificial and repetitive. Sure, there are a couple of different biomes, but they all end up looking pretty similar and filled with random obstacles just to showcase your “powers.” Inquisition wasn’t perfect, but at least the world felt a bit more engaging to explore.

As for the general gameplay? It’s decent enough, but nothing special—definitely doesn’t make up for the nonsense kids cartoon that is the writing . Overall, I’d give it a 5/10.
 

Conan the Librarian
745 products in account
0
299 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 19

Not Recommended
52.3 hrs on record
Posted: 19 November, 2024
The most disappointing game I have ever played. I've always loved the Dragon Age franchise, this game butchered the world. They culled it of culture and controversy. They erased slavery, racism, moral dilemma, and choice. Struggle can not be represented without portraying struggle. A grim world I loved that called out the evils of the real world has been made into a happy-go-lucky game that above all else, doesn't want you to question your morals. I cried tears of joy over how real talking to companions in Inquisition felt. This game contains none of the merits of it's predecessors. They took an evil organization that buys and abuses enslaved children, then murders anyone who tries to leave, and decided to portray it as a friendly family of assassins loved by all. There's more depth in the datamined character description of my least favorite character than any part of the actual game. Your character is everyone's therapist, an underdog saving the world while alerting no global power or significant organization to the threat, whose only goal in life is to kill the obvious bad guys who are motivated only by evilness and power. There is no room for freedom of choice or deep conversation. They purged any hopes of that from the game so long ago that the remnants of what we could have had do not remain.
 

MadKillerKittens
130 products in account
0
4,179 people found this review helpful
39 people found this review funny 191

Not Recommended
17.2 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
It's not Dragon Age
As a game, it's decent.
But the atmosphere of the previous games is gone. It's like playing Guardians of the Galaxy, which can be fun for some.
But it's not Dragon Age. And that's what I personally wanted
 

LordTombstone
66
411 people found this review helpful
12 people found this review funny 66

Not Recommended
103.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2024
I was so, so excited for this game. I love dragon age, and have respected the series writing and ever-improving dialogue since origins. I have played over 1000 hours of inquisition alone. Dozens of playthroughs on various platforms. I’m also non-binary, and was so excited to hear there’d be a non-binary character in this game - only to find it a mostly offensive, overly sanitized, infantilizing mockery, which felt deliberately crafted to make certain cis players to feel good about themselves and for EA/Bioware to check on a box and pat themselves on the back for.

That is all to say this game felt like a direct insult to the entire craft, thedas, and fans as a whole. I have legitimately never felt this upset about any piece of media.

i tried so hard to give it a chance, and at nearly every turn found myself disappointed. But I’ll start with what i managed to cling to while making it through to the end:

The environmental assets and style are beautiful, finally lining up with concept art we’ve seen BTS since dragon age 2. My couple complaints being that darkspawn are indeed a bit goofy looking, and elgarnan and companion villains a bit generic and cartoonishly offputting.

The gameplay, on the latter two difficulties (excluding nightmare mode) is pretty good! There were encounters i genuinely enjoyed. It does, however, begin to wear you down if you’re a completionist like me. i found myself losing interest about 50% of the way through the game, and put it to easy just so i could finish this game and finally sever my relationship with this series once and for all.

I did genuinely enjoy a lot of the level design, if puzzles were a little more varied, or linked to more interesting mysteries or codex entries, it would have probably been close to perfect for me. It was a bit nostalgic and old school in a way that was mostly comforting, but it may not appeal to everyone, and does get boring with the lack of the aforementioned variety.

For this next bit I’m going to define a couple things:

Writing: Will refer to plot beats, character arcs, and faction quests - essentially the structural components and their pace.

Story: Will refer to how lore of the previous games is integrated, and the actual moment to moment things that happen within arcs and quests, or what make up the connective tissue between plot beats.

Dialogue: will refer to the craft of word for word writing - sentence structure, naturalism, tone, prose, and era appropriateness.

With that established: they’re all terrible. I genuinely find nearly every choice of word and plot point in this to be offensive to the very craft, let alone the series. I never could have imagined how bad this part would be. Average? Boring? Maybe as utilitarian as your staple Assassins Creed entry? But THIS? THIS??? This is insanity.

Teen Titans, Over The Garden Wall, Avatar The Last Airbender, Spongebob - what do these *children’s cartoons* have anything to do with Veilguard? Good Question! They all have infinitely more prose, tension, conflict, wit, self awareness, and naturalism in dialogue and plot than any given moment in this game. I am genuinely baffled by anyone and everyone saying any part of this is “good”. I find it perfectly understandable to *maybe* find moments here and there *potentially* enjoyable — and concede that there are, in fact, very good *ideas* established — but i honestly am having difficulty understanding how those things weren’t thoroughly ruined for everyone by their soulless delivery and the bitter taste of all that surrounds them.

The vocabulary in this game barely exceeds sophomore year of highschool, and lacks anything you could call close to prose — let alone the flowery subtleties and witty implications of its predecessors, particularly Inquisition. Information is given freely and repeatedly, names and locations are repeated unnecessarily and incessantly, lore is dropped unceremoniously, and the game constantly spoils what’s about to happen by having characters discuss their “theories” before embarkment — all of which are, always, always, perfectly on the nose.

Anytime I managed to perk up at something potentially interesting, the game almost immediately answers any potential questions i might have delighted in before they even finish brewing in my head, destroying any sense of wonder or mystery that could have been so easily procured; had the game shut the ♥♥♥♥ up for a single maker-be-damned moment. At the games absolute best, this would happen during the proceeding scene, but many more times than that it would happen within one or two sentences. I found this absolutely infuriating.

Companion quests are cartoonishly immature, not only in tone, as nearly everyone points out, but in their very inclusion of certain ideas, tropes, and expectations of the player. Unique villains are established and given little to no empathy through dialogue, choices, or portrayal all the way up until their final scene, within which, suddenly! You and your companion (depending on who it is) decide that maybe you could reason with them actually, or maybe this one shouldn’t die actually.

Every moment feels like i’m being forced to feel something completely unearned by the game. Veilguard is CONSTANTLY *telling you* how you should be feeling — whether it’s through the laughably coaxing soundtrack or directly through companion dialogue. We think this guy is evil, we think this thing someone did is bad, this thing happening is sad — with nearly no ability as the player to question or share an opinion that isn’t in some form an agreement with everyone else’s assessment of the situation. One moment, every thing from the music to Rook to your Companion to Environment art to *the immediately preceding events* are telling you that this person is almost certainly unredeemable, the next you are practically gaslit by the game when Rook and Co share their Actual fully formed opinions that are either passed off as always having been nuanced, or some weird mix of “they deserve it but i feel bad but they deserve it”.

[major spoilers i guess if you got this far and still give a ♥♥♥♥]
Characters have absolutely baffling backgrounds that often make very little sense within the context of the world — |parents dying in a building collapse instead of literally any of the dozens of established things that get people unceremoniously and perfectly unfairly killed in this series, every single day: war, famine, robbery, darkspawn, blight, giant scorpions, dragons, demons, wandering into chasind territory, qunari, dare i continue? —Our non-binary character not knowing anything about the term (WHICH FOR THE LOVE OF GOD WOULDNT EXIST, AND COULD HAVE BEEN LORED INTO SOMETHING COOL HAD IF NOT BEEN FOR THE ALREADY RELATED TERM IN THEIR HOME LANGUAGE THAT THE GAME EVEN BRINGS UP) even though they are 20, have traveled extensively, and are in the same organization that harbors at least one notorious non-binary braggart, in an organization of braggarts, in a culture of story telling, that also happens to have an extremely convenient hub in which they gather frequently to brag their storied exploits, and who are all sort-of-pirates - yknow, just the most unconventional, historically gender defiant group of freaks to grace our real life earth???|| I could go on for each companion, but it would require me to go back and refresh myself on all the parts of this game i sincerely cannot wait to forget.

The overall writings pace is clinical: every character feels perfectly calculated into having the same amount of screen time, quality or context be damned, and certain types of scenes feel like they required x# of one kind of choice and y# of another. This ends up giving a very strange feeling to the timing opportunities Rook gets to speak. There are many moments that feel like the player should have control and didn’t, and many totally unnecessary moments of control.

BAH CHARACTER LIMIT

Anyway RIP dragon age



 

ActiveWarning
0
1,204 people found this review helpful
17 people found this review funny 228

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I've had my time with DA:V before buying it for review.

My background with Dragon Age
I am a long-time fan of the series. I have played each of the entries several times for hundreds of hours. I even bought all of the games multiple times on different retail platforms due to some versions no longer working properly. Even today, I frequently dig out the old titles to play them.

Dragon Age - The Veilguard
The Good
The game is not a bad game for what it is. I actually do like the visually stunning environments. I appreciate that the developers avoided EA launcher and DRM integration. Additionally, the official SteamDeck verification ensures playablity for years to come, if one ever feels inclined to revisit it.

The Bad
The game deserves a thumbs down for what it fails to be - a Dragon Age game. On the other hand, gameplay is too weak to stand out as an action game either. Dragon Age has always been about more than just a short story with character interaction. It is a story with meaningful choices that spans multiple entries, which Veilguard barely continues. Also, Dragon Age used to be a very mature setting, which involved exploring dark medieval fantasy worlds. Through character progression, one could increase attributes, gain talents and earn a variety of skills to choose from to fight hordes of enemies in strategic combat. One was able to set up team tactics and to take control and give direct orders to set up combos or escape threats. All this was underlined by majestic, atmospheric (orchestral) sound. And also, you had the choice to be nice or rude.

So what do we get now?
* Awful Torchlight-style character models that do not fit in the environment
* Emotionless face animations
* A flashy UI that deserves a constant epilepsy warning
* Highly censored content (no blood, spiders, female curves, rudeness, ...)
* Boring puzzles
* Weird camera movement
* Generic BGM
* Poor writing and bad game decisions that break the immersion:
One big, happy family of companions. There are no meaningful conflicts or disagreements
The freedom to choose between being nice, nicer, or nicest
Boring and infantile conversations
Repetitive banter
There are no secrets. Everyone throws their truth at you, whether you want to hear it or not
Strange romancing system
Unrealistic cannon-like ballistas
meaningless decisions
...
* A limit of two companions one cannot control and that can't die
* Meaningless cosmetic items as DLC
* A lord-of-war-style fighting system
* A limit of three usable skills (plus a few combo elements). Using one party member skill puts all others on cooldown.
* A gated skill tree
* Repetitive gameplay
* RNG gear system with gear that can be used by only one person

I understand why BioWare tries to establish a new fighting system to reach a larger audience, but not why they did not provide an action and a strategy game mode to choose from.

A few words regarding inclusivity
I myself am a transgender lesbian, so I suppose that somewhat makes me part of the "Modern Audience" this game is targeted at. In real life, I am happy if I can live my life as the woman I always longed to be, with people either not noticing any difference, not commenting on it, or at the very least, treating me with respect. I was able to find this sense of acceptance in traditional RPGs as well. I don't need (nor want) the whole world to turn LGBTQ+ and have everyone loudly declare it.

Personally, I prefer realistic character editors where I can create an avatar with feminine curves (which Veilguard prevents). Even as a male on phyto hormones, I was able to grow bigger breasts than can be set up for women in this character editor. So how shall I see myself represented or included in this game?

Instead, self-proclaimed "queerosexual gendermancer" and game director Corinne Busche obviously saw the need to have top surgery scars included in the game (notably as a prominent dedicated feature toggle, not as just one scar to choose from within a long list of scars). Actually, that would not be such a bad idea if it didn't focus on such a small aspect only, catered to such a niche audience, contradicted the whole setting, and led to losing sight of tackling all the other shortcomings this game has.

In real life, no one chooses these scars; they are simply an unavoidable side effect of the transition process. So why would I want them in an RPG where I can transition whilst avoiding these scars? People playing RPGs don't want to see their real selves represented; they want to escape real life. And how should I imagine sex reassignment surgery in a medieval fantasy setting anyway? Is Volo removing one's breasts with a rusty spoon before gifting his magically infused "Ersatz penis"? Sorry, it's things like that, that break the immersion for me.

With my female alter ego, I loved to seduce Leliana and Isabella. I liked transgender Krem, which seemed very authentic to me. Seeing him treated with the same respect as anyone else felt truly heart-warming and inclusive to me. I'm fine with Taash considering themselves "non-binary". But why do they have to use that 21st-century notion? I'm sure there would be more suitable means to express the same thing in a medieval way.

Despite that, if BioWare plays the inclusivity card, why focus on that very specific aspect? Where are eunuch, orchiectomy, and vaginoplasty scars? Why not be inclusive towards hermaphrodites? How about people with obesity, disabilities, artificial limbs, genetic defects, parasitic twins, you name it? How about being inclusive towards people with Tourette syndrome, anxiety or bipolar disorders? You think that's funny? Actually, it isn't. No one wants to see the marks of their real-life imperfections, humiliations and sufferings in a video game where they want to role-play a life without these burdens. I suppose only people not having such scars would want to roleplay having them.

So how about being inclusive to 85% of all people and providing the most basic features in a character editor - female women and masculine men? It's barely there! So obviously inclusivity to BioWare means including gay and transgender men and discriminating everyone else. It's just too specific and inconsequent to call this game's character editor inclusive. Even worse, by messing with a franchise like this out of a political agenda, it only leads to the opposite of what BioWare wanted to achieve: aversion and hostility towards us LGBTQ+ people. It's pathetic!

Verdict
Given the mixed reception from fans and the game's innovations that diverge from what long-time fans expected, I doubt the game will even reach the break-even point. The game fails to capture the core elements that defined the Dragon Age franchise, which will lead to disappointment among long-time fans. Compared to competing action titles, this game does not stand out either.

I am not willing to pay the full price for the game not delivering the full Dragon Age experience. I don't like action games. I might buy this game on sale once again and force myself to endure the combat system just to experience the story, if it is any good. On the other side, I might quite well just watch some gameplay videos.

This game might mark the end of Bioware, and I meanwhile no longer care. If a software studio does not care about its most skilled staff members, nor the heritage of this genre-defining franchise, nor the opinion of its fandom, why should I care about that software studio? They would have been showered with money if BioWare had listened to what fans longed for just for a second. Unfortunately, the game never fully returned through the veil from its excursion to a live service game. They'd better sell the franchise to Larian than make another "Drag on age - the fail guarantor."

Feeling generous, I'd give it 4/10.
 

Pandora
676 products in account
68
4,258 people found this review helpful
92 people found this review funny 1,272

Not Recommended
29.9 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
10 years waiting for Dragon Age: Dreadwolf... My disappointment is immeasurable and my day is ruined. Okay first of all, let me make sure I understand. My inquisitor disappeared after meeting Solas at the end of Trespasser and then he was replaced by some Rook guy Varric meets in a pub, without elaborating. Then almost everyone from Inquisition, DA2 and Origins mysteriously disappeared while few remaining characters have amnesia of past events. Everyone looks like cartoon characters and dialogue is so simple like it was written by a 4 year old child. I don't even know what to say about emotionless voice acting, robotic facial and body animations (Andromeda, we meet again?), no open world, no party control, repetitive boring combat... Something just isn't right here. What the hell happened to Dragon Age storytelling or Bioware storytelling in general??? Oh wait a minute. All veterans left the company.

10 years of building up Solas as main antagonist, only to be replaced by two cliché bad guys... Then we get introduced to a qunari companion. Oh, and the qunari race? I don't even know how they went from Arishok to this lame and weak af, the very opposite of what qunari race is and stands for. They really did them dirty here. Anyway, this companion apparently is in existential crisis and she says things like "I hate being a woman.", "I identify as non-binary now. And I'm going to use "they" instead of "she" from now on"... then there is also a scene where another character misgenders "them" and preaching how to apologize by doing some push-ups? Oh. My. God. I feel as if I entered some atrociously bad fanfiction or ended in a wrong timeline where Dragon Age is not dark fantasy and it was made by Disney. It all makes sense when you look up lead director of this game who describes themselves as "Queerosexual Gendermancer", thats all you need to know to understand why there is a lack of talent.

On subject about lgbt: Dragon Age always had gay and trans characters but instead of bringing back old characters that had actual development and story, you know, characters that dragon fans actually loved... they decided to make replacements that can't even hold a candle. And a main objective in this game is romance? I'm saying this as a female: these new characters are ugly, unattractive, and they don't even have a personality because apparently writers identify as non-existent. By the way, did I already mentioned that writing is bad? This is just a deal-breaker for me, especially in a choice-based game.

If I didn't paint clear enough picture: Lead director is the real main character who made the game be all about himself and to do it, butchered the entire Dragon Age lore in the process. Saying you have divided a Dragon Age community would be an understatement in and of itself... Duncan didn't die for this.

I'm so glad that this will be the last Dragon Age game since after this Bioware won't be able to ruin Mass Effect 4 as well. I'll just pretend this game never existed and refund. Now I'm going back to playing old games before I die of this cringe.

With regards,
A Dragon Age fan of the old Bioware.

EDIT: I've decided to complete this game since I got a lot of messages from people coping saying that I should've played more before I talk. Fine by me, since I'll get to see everything wrong there is in this game so I can warn potential buyers.

EDIT 2: I was gonna complete this game. I just can't... this is abysmally bad. I had absolutely no expectations and I'm still disappointed. I had to restart the entire game a couple of times because my save files would get corrupted or I encounter a game breaking bug on main quest so I have to reload an earlier save over and over... All my previous points still stand. I wasted 30 hours trying to like anything about this game. This is just a mess. Combat was fun for a few hours and then so boring I was speedrunning. I have nothing more to say about that.

Rook as character is pointless, just a nobody that has no connection to Solas. Again, why I'm not playing as an inquisitor or Hawke? By the way, Varric is dead and Hawke isn't even in this game. He died in first few minutes of the game gg.

Dialogue and story writing I just can't stand it. There is no human emotion or connection, no memorable moments. You don't have any options in dialogue, you can't say no, ever. You have 3 options: agree, agree and agree. I can only remember one option where I could choose if I could save or kill someone and that's the only "evil" thing in 30 hours that I played. There is no insight into character's history, relationships and personality because they do not talk or act like humans. They are not allowed to have conflict like normal beings. There is no immersion. In Veilguard every race is living together in harmony. They have zero issues and no prejudice with each other. It's like racism suddenly seized to exist in dragon age universe and it's forbidden to even talk about. Everyone is like a hive-mind.

I'm done. I'm never buying another Bioware game. This company is dead to me.
 

Marina
1,875 products in account
0
835 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 88

Not Recommended
60.0 hrs on record
Posted: 6 November, 2024
After playing a decidedly unhealthy amount of this game for the past 6 days, it's finally over. And there really is no good answer to whether or not I would recommend this game. I enjoyed the beginning and the end, but gun to my head I would have to say slogging through the tedium that is the middle of the game is not worth it. So here are my thoughts about why this is.

Before I start, the game is not that bad on the diversity front. One companion will shove it down your throat, but the rest of the time it is pretty non intrusive. So don't let the fact that you might think the game is too DEI heavy keep you from playing it. If it really bothers you just don't do any of Taash's quests. They suck regardless so you won't miss anything worthwhile. Now on to the actual review.

First, this game doesn't care that you played the other three in the series. It is going to tell the story it wants to tell, and the choices you made in the other games don't exist. This sucks, a lot. In a series that has always reacted to your previous choices, having this one do its own thing just feels bad, and every time something happened that wouldn't have happened in the world I had created with the other games it felt annoying, and then sad. I just couldn't get nearly as invested into this story as the previous ones because of this and other reasons.

Additionally, the game thinks you are stupid. It will spell out the consequences of every decision you make immediately after you make it, and will point out every time a past decision you made influences something that is currently happening. Also, the dialogue wheel just feels dated at this point. Instead of relationships being built over the course of many decisions that characters approve of, or agonizing over a dialogue choice because you're not sure which one is the best for what you want, it's just pick the flirt option if you want to romance, and pick the other options if you don't. Outside of that there is really no difference between the other options.

Another reason I couldn't get super invested is the party members. Now don't get me wrong, I liked 5 out of 7 of them, which isn't awful, but I wasn't ready to go to war for any of them like Morrigan in Origins or Merrill in 2. They didn't feel integral to my journey, the dialogue is just boring (which is a problem throughout the game) and they don't impact your story in any meaningful way. Cut them all out and not that much changes. they just felt like they needed to be there because that's what people expect from Bioware games. All of them lacked the depth and complexity that made me love previous Bioware companions, but Neve and Taash in particular sucked. Neve because her voice actress sounded bored the entire time, and Taash because the script they wrote for them was just awful. One day they may make an interesting non-binary character, but Taash is not it. I don't know why games and shows like to make character's non-cisgender status as their whole identity, but it sucks every time, and this time it's no different.

Next, the combat system reinforced this feeling. This is the first of the many parallels I will draw to Mass Effect. In fact, the game felt much more like a Mass Effect game than a Dragon Age game. Your party members are pretty much just there to throw out powers, except now they are even more useless as they do zero damage outside of their powers. In Mass Effect at least your party members would kill things with their shots sometimes. Here they do tiny little bits of damage, and don't take any themselves. You are the main character, and you will kill everything. This is now a full fledged arpg, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. I like arpgs and have played a lot of them. But the combat just doesn't feel incredible like it should in an arpg. It just felt serviceable, lacking depth, and combined with the ridiculously spongy enemies on nightmare combat eventually became a slog, so much so that towards the end I turned the difficulty all the way down so combat wouldn't take so long.

Another reason I turned down the difficulty was the story and world. It got so bogged down and slow in the middle that after 55 hours of it I was just done and wanted to finish the game. The antagonists being the most boring, we are super evil because we are super evil caricatures ever made, and the lack of an open world make the game feel like it slowed to a crawl in the middle. Missions felt more like Mass Effect missions than Dragon Age ones. You run a long a predetermined path, fighting enemies, doing stupid puzzles, and opening chests along the way. Only the reintroduction of Solas at the end, who should have been the main antagonist throughout, redeemed the ending. They pulled another Mass Effect and copied 2 with you having to choose specific companions to go do other things, like lead the other team, and the choices you make can lead to deaths or different outcomes. Even though I adore ME2, it felt super lame that I had already done this in another one of their games from over a decade ago. Although they tried to ruin it with one of the most pointless and stupid twists I have ever experienced. I just can't get over how dumb that twist was. Whoever wrote that should be banned from writing ever again.

That said, there were some insane and awesome lore reveals that I was legitimately floored by. Make sure you do the Dread Wolf's regrets quest line if you choose to play the game. Not only do you need it for the true ending but the lore reveals in there are crazy and amazing.

My final big issue with the game is its systems. The skill tree for the mc is fine. Nothing incredible, nothing awful, and lets you craft a character how you want. The problem is the loot system does not support this. It's completely random. The upgrade system works off dupes. Gear starts common, and with each dupe you get it ranks up all the way to legendary, getting new affixes along the way. The problem with this is if you don't rng the gear your want, that build you created in the skill tree won't work because you don't have the gear to support it.

The loot system is also terrible. Except for item dupes, all of the loot in the game feels so inconsequential. Almost all of it is junk that you sell. Opening chests just felt so lame. The fact that you will spend a good chunk of your time in the game doing insipid puzzles to open every chest, only to get more of the same junk most of the time, because if you don't you might miss an rng check for the gear dupe for the item you want just feels so lame.

To wrap up my essay, I would say that unless you are a certified Dragon Age nut like me, avoid the game. You won't appreciate the highs of the game unless you know about the world and lore of the series, and the game is not fun enough to play on its own. And even if you are a lore junkie, go in knowing the game doesn't care about the world you built in the previous games. Accept that Isabella is basically just there to lecture you about the correct way to respond when you mess up a person's pronouns we have all seen on YouTube by now. Accept that Morrigan's Old God kid no longer exists. Accept that many of the things that got you invested in the world in the first place no longer exist, and try to appreciate what is left. It's not nearly as good, but it can still be pretty cool at points.
 

Gorillastache
0
1,150 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 207

Not Recommended
114.7 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Dragon Age was my childhood’s Witcher 3, a world where I could spin my own A Song of Ice and Fire—one choice at a time, with each consequence mine to bear, each path something I could shape. For a lover of layered fantasy, it was everything. But seeing this series now, hollowed out and repackaged, is like watching an old friend slowly fade, each new entry reminding me more of what it’s lost than of what it once gave.

As an Asian fan, BioWare, I want you to know: feeling seen in a world inspired by medieval Europe doesn’t hinge on immersion-breaking characters who mirror my appearance. Connection comes from the freedom to shape characters with struggles that mirror real human experiences.I felt seen when I played the second son of Cousland, the last of his family, grappling with a legacy now his to carry alone, embodying knightly ideals even as vengeance and grief clawed at him, eventually finds his bittersweet peace with a free-spirited witch. I felt connected, too, as a mercenary refugee from Ferelden—a soul tainted by years of hardship, cold-blooded and sharp-tongued, yet unable to resist that quiet call to be a hero, chose to sacrifice everything to defend the innocents with the infamous pirate queen.

The magic lay in that freedom, not in forcing a message—yet now, Dragon Age feels like a hollow shell, where borrowed agendas have replaced the world of genuine choices and consequences that once made it unforgettable. These characters and stories once felt rich and real because the original creators understood the power of subtlety. Themes were woven naturally, inviting players to discover themselves through their own choices. Now, that freedom is gone, replaced by shallow dialogue and prepackaged ideas as if Dragon Age has devolved into a platform for borrowed agendas instead of a realm of choice, consequence, and meaning.

The series I fell in love with understood that players didn’t need to be lectured; we could find our own meaning through the choices we made. For me, that’s where Dragon Age still lives—in the memories of these complex, beautiful tales. I’ve made my last purchase from Bioware, cherishing the memories of a series that once transported players to a realm of intricate tales and meaningful choices, now overshadowed by a sense of disconnection that echoes through the very fabric of its once brilliant world.
 

白宫门口的鸭
284 products in account
0
620 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 56

Not Recommended
105.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 November, 2024
Been playing Dragon Age since Origins, and RPGs for even longer, that's my bias and where I'm coming from.

Let me save you time and keep it short and sweet. You like Dragon Age? Don't buy this, watch a letsplay. You invested in the lore and wanna see the story through to the end? I'm sorry for the time and money you're about to lose see above. You like unga bunga action and don't care what's going on? Maybe this is the right game for you on a sale or discount.

This is the worst Dragon Age game to date, a terrible Role Playing Game and a middling action game. The debut trailer for this game was accurate. You know the one that was generally lambasted and derided for being off-tone and thematically divorced from anything related to Dragon Age.

If you are a fan of the Dragon Age series, if you have ever been invested in the rich tapestry of stories and characters that this series has showcased I'm sorry.

Again short and sweet
Combat: Serviceable, a departure from the series traditional tactical combat. Personal opinion, This is basically Mass Effect and that sucks. The reduction of party size from 3 to 2 feels like it was done only to facilitate the ME combat model. This leaves you with a unbalanced combat loop that also manages to hurt the games ability to deliver the story and let you engage with the characters.

Dialogue and Narrative: it's awful, just ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ awful. Character dialogue is now written in a very modern tone that feels completely disconnected from previous series and closer to a Marvel movie. The quality of the writing is also much worse than previous titles. You may hear some people dismiss this criticism by saying "the writings never been great" or "it's a video game, who cares?". My response is that it's actively bad, the dialogue when delivered brings the experience down. Dragon Age as a series has always had a central pillar built around a strong story experience and every time these characters talk they chip away at it until Veilguard collapses and breaks apart.

Role Playing and Choice: There's none in this game so not worth talking about. btw I am not joking or being facetious or hyperbolic or exaggerating. There is no roleplaying in this game. You are good person Rook. Everyone in your party has a good nature and wouldn't kick a puppy. You're the Veilguard, You're the heroes, and your going to save everyone and your boring and blah blah blah. The flanderization spreads to other named characters in the series which comes off as unnatural. The worst part is how conversations and dialogue are delivered everything is ambient dialogue or a cutscene. You do not talk to people, you just listen or watch. You cannot ask your companions questions, you cannot learn more about them or the world or their factions. You do not engage with the story it is instead presented to you.

Everything else/rants: Doesn't matter, I didn't like it. Though special mention to the music which for a handful of scenes and areas worked ok. Every other track though ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ terrible. I'm hearing synth beats in a ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ fantasy game, makers breath it's not worth getting into. Also special ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ mention to the ♥♥♥♥ maps. Shop Vendors outside of the faction vendors are not listed on the map so the only way to find them is to wander around and hope you remember where they are. Further compounding the problem street names and location names are not listed either which makes navigation even more of a pain in the ass, who let this release like this?


In Summary: The previous Dragon. Age games were like epic novels, that you could replay over and over with a depth of character and breadth that you rarely see duplicated anywhere else. Veilguard is like a terrible summer movie. In my personal opinion Origins is like a Song of Ice and Fire and Veilguard is like Game of Thrones S8 or Thor: Love and Thunder. This game hasn't killed my love of the Dragon Age series but it wasn't for lack of trying.
 

Black Carbonite
565 products in account
7
672 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 13

Not Recommended
120.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
It is difficult to articulate how painfully awful the writing and storytelling are in this game. Combat feels like an action game on mobile. There is precious little left of Dragon Age here.
 

Melancholic Goblin
0
832 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 44

Not Recommended
51.9 hrs on record
Posted: 20 November, 2024
As many have said, it’s an average game, but a very-very bad Dragon Age.

It looks like Bioware needed to find money for a new Mass Effect or justify its existence, I don’t know. This game, developed in 2-3 years at most, has typical action patterns on the level of Assassins Creed, simple side quests, corridor locations, and sponge enemies.

Nothing to say about dialogues, lore, narrative - ChatGPT level, no depth (only GODS). Don’t like the new canon story either - why make up something new when the old one worked well?

What’s good - graphics, 2D art (as always), voice actors, only a couple of quests and some new companions/regions. If you just want to chill and push buttons sometimes - The Veilguard will be a decent decision.

But if you want to spend 40-50 hours and get rich lore/cool mechanics or just an interesting RPG - play Dragon Age: Origins / Inquisition, Baldur’s Gate 3, Planescape: Torment, Tyranny, you name it.
 

vikki mikk
544 products in account
4
429 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
50.1 hrs on record
Posted: 15 December, 2024
i’m happy for everyone who enjoyed this, but i’m disappointed. it’s not a bad game; i just don’t like it.

the companions are great and i really love them. the gameplay is seamless & the most fun i’ve had with a dragon age game’s playstyle, and this is coming from an annoying origins glazer. the main story itself isn’t boring & even quite engaging at times, but that’s really it.

this isn’t the setting i fell in love with back when i played origins for the first time, and it hasn’t been for a while, but this feels like everything compounded. it’s watered down and ultimately lacklustre, it does away with “problematic” elements entirely rather than handling them tactfully, and i felt somehow removed from the setting or like my character wasn’t really in it pretty much all the time. but i’m mostly just disappointed.

i’ll come back to this at some point to finish it, but not at the moment. it feels like a chore rather than a game i’m playing for fun right now. and that makes me sad.
 

prettiest corpse in the morgue
0
324 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 37

Not Recommended
77.5 hrs on record
Posted: 29 January
First, I'll get the plain stuff out of the way. Gameplay-wise, this game isn't the worst thing I've played. I'm not a fan of how they went the ARPG route, straying the furthest from Origins in terms of combat. I'm a turn-based combat gal, so the farther the games get from how combat was played in Origins (and 2), the less I like it. That's just a preference thing though. The combat was still enjoyable for a little while, but it started to bore me the more I played, and the screen got so busy during combats that it was frankly hard to look at and track my own gameplay. Visually, the environments look great, they also obviously spent a lot of time on the character creation, which is by far the best of the series. I will say they butchered the Qunari though. The game also had an annoying lag problem for me that only lasted during the first 5 or so minutes of gameplay, which was annoying. Otherwise, the game played pretty decently.

And now onto the real ♥♥♥♥. Look, this is a bad game. And not because it's "too woke", that's just dogwhistle ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. We get it, you're a xenophobe.

This game is bad because it's written like Baby's First Dragon Age; a sanitised, safe, and awkwardly apologetic take on a game world I love dearly. In this game, the Evil factions are Evil and they follow the Evil Gods because they're Evil, and everyone you can meet is plainly a good guy, because they're not in the Evil faction. It's like Disney for Gamers! Dragon Age: The Veilguard tries as hard as it can to be "unproblematic" and in the process becomes a 90 hour slog of meaningless drivel that's fed to you on a spoon, with somebody holding a little soft towel under your chin in case a bit dribbles and they can wipe it up softly while whispering "I'm here for you".

Want to play a game with a protagonist you can relate to? Too bad, in DAV your Rook will act like a clown for half the game and your companions' therapist for the other half. Want to meet and interact with compelling characters who have meaningful side quests? Too bad, your companions are about as developed as a blank sheet of paper, and if you thought their side quests would have any bearing on the story as a whole then joke's on you!! Have fun re-iterating the same things with each of your companions every time you talk to them because nothing you do or say matters in this game. Think you're going to have the typical Bioware dialogue wheel to pick the responses *your* Rook would say in every situation? Well actually you don't even need to worry about making those tough choices because every dialogue option gets you the same outcome anyway! They did the tough decision-making for you! Aren't you GRATEFUL?!

This is a game that the studio will say is full of nuance, all while the game hits you over the head with factual statements that actively take away any semblance of interpretation from quest endings or in-game decisions. And don't worry, just in case your nuance receptors are broken and you're incapable of independent thought, they put annoying pop-ups in the game to tell you the nuance! DO YOU GET IT? DID YOU SEE? LOOK AT HOW MUCH INFLUENCE YOUR DECISIONS HAVE!!

In this game, you will meet a companion who is going through a gender identity crisis. I think this is a cool thing to put in a game. I love conversation about gender identity, and exploration of self-identity, and I love non-binary characters. What I don't love is when the game treats me like a 7 year old who has never heard of gender identity before, smashing me over the head with clumsy scenes of the companion having their crisis of identity with Rook standing by, ready to Therapize. And while my personal decisions would always be to support a friend who is figuring out their identity, this game pretty much forces you into that path, not even letting *you* question what gender identity might mean. Bioware decided that one for you. Again. Not to mention the push-ups scene...

I would talk about how unbearable the dialogue writing is, but that would take too long. I would talk about how badly written most of the quests are, but that would also take too long. I would talk about the post-credit scene, but I think that would send me spiralling, as it would for anybody who played the first three games. I could even talk about how honestly insulting the post-release communication with the fandom has been from the devs, but that would make me too angry, and I haven't got the energy for that. What I do want to mention is how heartbreaking this game is for fans of the series. It's truly devastating to see a world full of incredible lore, fantastic characters, heavy themes, and morally grey areas, shaved down into a sliver of what it used to be in order to try to be the most politically correct and inoffensive game possible.

This game doesn't have consequences. This game doesn't let you question. This game shies away from leaving anything open to interpretation, or allowing the player to affect the world in any meaningful way other than the single way the devs decided was right for it. This game doesn't want to make anyone angry. In fact, this game won't really let your character get angry in it either. But it achieved the opposite effect for me, and it has left me furious, resentful, and hopeless for the future of the game series that started my love for RPGs. I don't know if Dragon Age as a series can come back from DAV. I truly hope it can claw it's way back up somehow, but it's going to have to fight hard to climb out of this deep, miserable pit.
 

Exquiba
0
312 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
9.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
I went into this game with every hope and prayer that this game would be something special. I caught up with all previous Dragon Age games and their intricate stories, learnt the lore and deep world building. I hyped myself up through every piece of media I could find.

When the first trailers came in, I told myself maybe the marketing team didn't know what Bioware was cooking in the forges.

Then the reviews dropped, and my enthusiasm was split down the middle, I chose to believe, and lean on the side of the positive reviews that this game could be great.

And then I finally played it for myself. And this game is a comfortably luke-warm 6.5 ~ 7 of out 10. It's a far from being the utter flop the negative reviews have all claimed and professed; but it is absolutely not the game anyone of us truly wanted, or really expected.

Pros:
- Game runs very well, and is optimised excellently, as pointed out in the Digital Foundry PC tech review.
- Environment, and Graphics are subjectively incredibly gorgeous, with some stunning vistas. (Although the big Disney-Pixar heads are a strange art choice.)
- At its core, it still is Dragon Age, and die-hard fans with a less critical perspective on game design will find a great deal of enjoyment of seeing their favourite characters on screen once more.
- Combat is flashy and fast, and somewhat satisfying; A frank improvement over Inquisition's animation slideshow combat.

Cons:
- Sadly, most of the writing is as everyone has feared from previews and reviews. It's lukewarm and is deathly afraid of getting dark, which I am CERTAIN will sadden most DA fans. It's not the worst writing in the world, and is more than serviceable, but please set your expectations accordingly. It's no masterpiece of writing, and you won't walk away from this game being shocked to your core with dramatic morally ambiguous decisions.
- Game is becoming slightly repetitive even by hour 10, which is foreboding for a ~60 hour game.
- The game lacks any of sort of major pull, or gravitas; meaning it feels overall quite generic for fantasy rpg. I have nothing CALLING me to continue playing other than the money and time invested.
- In truth, I dismissed Skillup's review at first, but I am beginning to see his worries are very indicative of my own experiences.

Synopsis: It's worth your money in a few months when it's on sale. It's not a Flop, but it's not Groundbreaking success either. If you're on the fence, wait a few weeks for a general consensus to emerge, or wait for the first sale.
 

🔥 CM Escape 🔥
193 products in account
0
835 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 51

Not Recommended
135.7 hrs on record
Posted: 17 January
The TLDR version is that it just ... doesn't feel like a Dragon Age game. It feels like a visual novel where you select "tone" you do not make choices. And I ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ hated it. Also, Taash is awful.


For one, I come to the franchise for the ability to make choices in both game decisions and in dialogue, that enable me to create multiple distinct characters with multiple distinct-and-thus-enjoyable play-thrus. That whole mechanic is lacking in VG, even in dialogue. You are no longer capable of being anything other than nice and supportive. Diplomatic has been traded for "positive", and is frequently unclear from the supposedly "humorous" responses. Even the "direct" options, typically end up being things like "we'll stop them!" rather than any deviation from Generic Good Guy -- frequently these are more akin to traditional diplomatic responses.

In short, there's no ability to create a personality, or someone that has opinions about things, since your response to everything is meaningfully identical. The vocal tone of the MC and several of the companions (Bellara and Taash, in particular) also feel inappropriately modern.

Similarly the story decisions you make are also pretty meaningless. In DAI, choosing the Templars or the Mages had very different storylines, with actual story consequences on how companions joined your team, and what quests you completed, and how you targeted Corypheus' lieutenant. In Veilguard it feels more like picking between the Blight Aesthetic and the Red Lyrium and Murder Aesthetic. Even the supposedly Big Choices feel interchangeable with almost no forward consequences.

Any choice you make has an effectively neutral result. This is true both with big choices (you choose *which* city bad things happen to, but the results are more or less the same) and smaller ones (there doesn't seem to be any difference in which choice you make about Harding's personal quest, for instance, and when you decide what to do with the First Warden, it has no outcome on his actions at the end of the battle, except in *tone*).

Also a problem, is that in cases like your companions making faulty decisions, you typically can't in any way question them or so much as imply they are wrong. Bellara's personal quest is when I ran into this most aggressively: I didn't WANT to support her, and the game trying to insist her idiocy was valid was incredibly frustrating.

Only good vibes here folks!

Compare to say, Solas' quest in DAI, where you can tell him that you're not going to save a spirit, or that's a *demon*, my guy. Or even Solas claiming "we're not here to help you" which you can counter with "Yes, we are." All of these allow you to actually express opinions, and thus for Solas to actually disapprove of those opinions, which created an atmosphere where some characters agreed with your views and some did not. Which is another thing largely lacking in Veilguard: companions almost never disapprove of anything you say, because the game largely refuses to allow you to say things that they'll disagree with. (The approval system in general seems to have little consequence.)

My second play-thru I picked almost entirely "direct" options, believing there had to be at least two different paths. There are not. Everyone was still my best-friend, because the choice in most situations is your tone, not what you're saying, or what you believe! This is a big issue for my enjoyment in a series that has consistently sold itself on the model that "Choices Matter".

Then there's the combat. I enjoyed it a lot better my second time through, because you have to understand that when they declare this to be a "single player game" they mean it: your companions lack hitpoints, and thus they largely exist as abilities that buff your own capabilities. As you're the only one with hitpoints, most enemies seem to target you by default, (especially bosses) and taunt abilities seem to be on cooldowns too long to make them effective for maintaining aggro.

Not to mention that having to hit tab to view companion abilities / find out if they're available, makes for a very clunky and clicky interface. You *can* map companion abilities to hotkeys, but this is effectively useless when you can't see if those abilities are available on the main display (there is a shortcut to display companion abilities, but no setting that allows you to have this information constantly available). There does not seem to be any way for companions to use abilities without direct instruction. Again, you're in practice playing one character with the extra models there for flavor.

I obviously found this far more enjoyable as a warrior or rogue rather than as a mage.

That said, it is action-adventure rather than tactical camera / typical party RPG style combat, which most people seem to find more enjoyable to play. The default key arrangements are cursed, but it gets better once you make a common sense changes. I will not argue that combat has been a strength of the series previously, but I DID find it unobjectionable and unobtrusive, which is no longer true. Veilguard has not managed to make action combat actually enjoyable, but it IS probably the best thing that the game has going for it.

But, being more of an action-adventure game, it frequently feels more like a puzzle-platformer than an RPG game, with tedious series of crystals to shoot, ladders to climb, platforms to jump, lasers to point, crystals to activate, just to get to the next door in the level. On the plus side, this means it does allow the MC to use companion abilities when they're not in the party (as otherwise you wouldn't be able to solve the level) but this again just contributes to the sense that companions give YOU abilities rather than actually being characters that exist. It also has clear levels that you progress through, with side-missions becoming unavailable after certain levels.

AND THEN there's the nonbinary thing.

I absolutely detested Taash and their entire storyline, and I say this as a queer person. For one, my issue is that the game isn't so much "lgbt-inclusive" as it is non-binary focused. Even a random villain in Treviso is non-binary, yet there's no discussion of anyone else's sexuality. Literally ALL your companions are pansexual, and yet there is no conversation about this, despite prior games making it clear that this is not the norm in Thedas. DAI made it very clear that in Tevinter in particular, being queer is opressed at the higher levels of society, due to the emphasis on magic being genetic.

Also, Taash is terrible representation, imo. They're selfish, self-centered, easily influenced in their identity by others (you tell them whether to embrace their Qunari or Rivani heritage) they're also completely tone-deaf. It's really hard to like Taash and their whole arc, when it triggers after a battle that killed hundreds, while I'm looking for Lucanis to make sure he's doing okay, and the game thinks this is a great moment for Taash to make a big deal about their gender identity.

I didn't want to support them, I wanted to tell them to sit down and shut up, because that's really not something I cared about right then. Taash's storyline is the only one where rather that serving to underline an aspect of the conflict with the gods, it is completely focused on their issues. Also on the friendship route, rather than getting to decide how you respond to the revelation of Taash deciding to use they/them, you pick a prompt that dictates your tone, and then game dictates your responses for the next couple minutes.

And again, I think this is a problem, because it really pushes people to just not engage with characters they feel railroaded by at all (which I did for Taash and Bellara my second playthrough).

The problem with Veilguard is that it has no grasp of nuance, or what made their other games interesting. I would rather a game that didn't give me dialogue prompts, than one where they're deceptive.
 

wastedondreams
87 products in account
9
344 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 18

Not Recommended
123.9 hrs on record
Posted: 15 November, 2024
If you've never played a Dragon Age game before, or if you're fine with shutting your brain off while you play, I can definitely recommend Dragon Age: The Veilguard. The action combat and characters are all interesting enough to warrant a playthough.

Unfortunately, I can't recommend this game for longtime Dragon Age fans. How Bioware treats the lore and the setting is absolutely atrocious. We went from a deep and complex dark fantasy setting to a squeaky clean, ultra-generic fantasy setting. The moral ambiguity we've seen from previous Dragon Age games has been completely stripped from Veilguard. Rook and the companions are all PG-rated, corporately sanitized Boy Scouts with zero edge. All the antagonists are power hungry bullies who simply want to dominate the world. This game is rated M for Mature, but it has the complexity of a Saturday morning cartoon.

It's abundantly clear that going forward, Bioware will NEVER release another deep, complex, or thought-provoking game. It's not that Bioware CAN'T make these types of games anymore. It's that they DON'T WANT to. They don't want to present you a morally ambiguous situation where you have to make a difficult decision. They're scared that you'll make the "wrong" decision. They'd rather you shut off your brain and let them do the thinking for you. Bioware used to be the gold standard for single player, story-focused, character-driven RPGs. It's obvious that they don't want to be that any more.
 

giantpizzacutter
1
127 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
63.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
Visuals
Pros:
- Hair physics is gorgeous.
- The art direction is quite nice.
Cons:
- A cartoonish art direction that has nothing to do in a serious dark fantasy setting.
- Expressions are really uneven. Sometime good, sometimes awful.
- Tons of armors, most of them ugly.

Sound
Pros:
- Voice acting is good.
Neutral:
- The music is unremarkable.

Combat
Pros:
- Combat is dynamic.
Cons:
- It has nothing you didn’t see in 100 other games.
- 100% action gameplay. No tactical aspect. No RPG aspect. Even your class changes near to nothing.
- Not a single trace of the Dragon Age DNA.

Story, lore & previous games
Pros:
- Story is interesting.
- Many things added to the lore.
Cons:
- Too many things added to the lore.
- Many inconsistences, some of which have a HUGE impact.
- Only 2 choices from the previous games are passed onto this one: 
- Veilguard happens 10 years after Inquisition, and absolutely nothing happens during that time.
- Your companions’ personal quests seem more important than saving the world.

Companions
Pros:
- Characters are well developed.
Cons:
- No moral disparity between your companions.
- One of them is both hypocritical and insufferable.
- Limited to 2 companions with you. Every other Dragon Age allowed 3.

Choice / Customization / Replayability
Pros:
- The character creation allows even more customization than Dragon Age Inquisition’s.
Cons:
- But the sliders are a lot more limited.
- Your background, class and race change next to nothing.
- The dialog wheel gives you the choice between “Okay”, “Okay and let me make a joke” and “Sure”. No player agency whatsoever.
- I’ve even seen a dialog where you have to choose between three choices. I choose one, the answer is “No, you’re wrong”. I choose another one, basically, same answer. And when I choose the last one, I get the notification (you get a notification any time you choose something that might have an impact in the future) “<The guy you're talking to> will remember you chose that”. Well, I didn’t.
- In a whole playthrough, only one decision has a real(ish) impact on the rest of the game.

World
Pros:
- Diverse areas.
- The semi-open world fixes a big Dragon Age Inquisition problem: the world is not an empty huge one.
Cons:
- Not a big fan of the hub from which you can just teleport anywhere.
- Some paths are blocked with a “area not accessible at the moment” wall.
- Motorised ziplines seem to be a normal means of transportation

Writing
Cons:
- I don’t know if it was written for or by children, but dialogs are horrendous.
- Identity politics plague the game.

Miscellaneous
Neutral:
- Puzzles are very easy to solve (that's a pro or con depending on the player)
Cons:
- Enemies appear from nowhere
- No crafting. When Dragon Age Inquisition had a great crafting system.

About Mass Effect 2
Before I conclude, I’d like to talk about the similarities between Veilguard and Mass Effect (especially ME2). Sometimes, those similarities are so blatant that it looks more like plagiarism than inspiration.
- Mission recap screen once you finished it.
- Building a team of experts to face the big challenge.
- 2 companions that you don’t control but to which you can give orders.
- The exact same active pause system.
- Loyalty missions and 
- 
But the thing is, those aren’t the reasons why Mass Effect 2 was so awesome and transformed a great Mass Effect 1 game into one of the best sagas in the history of gaming. So, copying those points don’t make Veilguard great. Worse, it robs the game of a part of its identity. You don’t see Dragon Age The Veilguard. You don’t even see a Dragon Age game. You just see a Mass Effect rip-off.

Conclusion
That game is a disappointment. Sure, it has its moments. Some epic moments when you’re playing the hero battling hordes of enemies during the cutscene. Until the next combat, when your “mage” can cast a grand total of 3 spells (4 if you count the ultimate). Or until the next, ♥♥♥♥♥♥, dialog, when you just realize that you have absolutely no control over what your character will do or say.
Dragon Age The Veilguard is not a good game, it’s a bad RPG and it's a really bad Dragon Age game.
 

Krimog
290 products in account
3
477 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 28

Not Recommended
150.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
I have been in love with the DA franchise since Origins. It was dark, gritty, humorous, disgusting at times, and even had romance! As a woman who has been playing rpgs since Everquest in the late 90's, it had everything I loved. However, the only thing Veilguard has in common with the previous incarnations is the name and setting. Seriously, there's not even any blood sprinkles on my character after battles. Dragon Age has always been dark fantasy, not Hello Kitty for teens. Yes, Inquisition wasn't as dark as the first 2 but it still felt like a DA game. This doesn't at all.

From the beginning, the story falls flat. The intro of the player character is weak and you have to actually go into your lore menu to find out why you are there at all. The dialogue is some of the worst I have ever experienced in a game and I have been playing World of Warcraft for 20 years (it has had some pretty horrible writing over its 2 decades). Then you have the graphics, which obviously don't follow the other three in style. I have seen people comparing it to Pixar but to me it's more Fortnite-esque. The Darkspawn models couldn't scare a toddler. Definitely not dark at all.

Combat is clunky, the story is just not good, and it simply doesn't feel like a DA game in any way, shape or form. I cannot fathom all of the positive reviews this game is getting. I can only speculate gamers are too intimidated to tell their real thoughts for fear of backlash. I don't care about all that noise. DA has always had a more progressive bent, though it handled it much better in the past. Tell me a good story, have good characters and game play, and I will play any character you want me to. Sadly, so far Veilguard doesn't have any of that. I'll finish the game because, as they say in poker terms, I am "pot committed" to the DA franchise at this point, but I am very disappointed in this entry. I can see why there will be no DLC. I'll probably edit this review once I have completed the game, but unless there is just some super awesome amazing surprise waiting for me in game, I can't ever see recommending this game. It's definitely not for pure fans of the first games.
 

bexara
4
965 people found this review helpful
64 people found this review funny 41

Not Recommended
21.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 March
Graphics are good, rest everything is bad. One of the worst games I've ever bought. IGN review which says "deserves its place in the RPG pantheon" LOL. This game deserves to be flushed down the to*let to be never seen again.
 

whattheduck
0
425 people found this review helpful
12 people found this review funny 13

Not Recommended
9.9 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
The game feels shallow, almost like I'm stuck in a group therapy session instead of truly engaging with the story or characters.
 

TuX
0
214 people found this review helpful 8

Not Recommended
94.0 hrs on record
Posted: 17 November, 2024
Below is my review after 100% finished game. Although I cannot recommend the the game as a new addition to the DA franchise, which are dark fantasy rpg games with heavy reliance on choice, I must say that I am not sorry that I played it as it is a decent 6/10 action adventure game situated in the DA/Thedas universe.

- The story:
The story is good, but it is hindered by bad writing, especially in the abyssimal first third of the game where everyone is cheery in situations where it is not appropriate and explaining everything to you like you are a child. All missions at that time feel off, noone is in a hurry, you take walks to buy food and other stuff, talk about insignificant things etc. It does get better afterwards, with the last third being the strongest. I especially enjoyed the missions related to the grey wardens and Solas. We also get to fight some dragons.
Thankfully, there are no fetch side quests. Some of the side quests are simply fighting, but this is still better than collecting shards and chasing goats like in DAI.

- No continuity from previous games:
The biggest player choices in the DA games would affect events across the games and Inquisition promised far reaching consequences with its war table and ordinary missions affecting multiple kingdoms and groups.
However, the DAV team decided to just cross out all of that and make some canon version of the events that suits them without any care for consistency with previous games and player choices in them.
The returning characters are simply different people under the same name – all of them have been changed to look very differently and, what is most important, they are not the same personality.

- The character design does not fit the setting:
some of the characters are too cartoonish (disney style) and with the voices to fit that cartoon look. This, combined with the cheery remarks, kills immersion in what should have been a dark medieval fantasy world at the brink of extinsion. Also, sometimes Rook and other characters smile when it does not fit the scene.

- Lack of choice and a world filtered of anything that can be considered morally gray or bad is the greatest problem of this game:
All factions are unrealistically good - good Crow assassins that never kill innocents, good Lords of Fortune looters who do not steal and have advisor to tell them to return culturally significant artefacts. Isabella, their leader and returning character who used to be free spirited, proud and charming, but also selfish, a thief and a liar – now makes push ups because she misgendered someone.
Your character Rook is almost predefined, you can select how they look and their faction, but you cannot actually shape their personality (and the overall story as well). When we select a faction, we are given an origin story - we have no choice in that story, we are always the good person who saved innocents. It would have been much better to get an origin story mission and make our own choices (or even select from several written ones in the character selection screen) - e.g. if I am crow, I may have chosen to be ruthless rather than benevolent savior. There are no faction specific missions for Rook as well, making him/her like a junior errand boy/girl for his/her companions's missions.
This lack of choice continues throughout the game. We have mostly cosmetic choices where we basically say the same thing, but with different tone. Even worse, the companions just call you, blurt out something that they need which results in a side mission and your character just automatically agrees. You cannot refuse a mission, you cannot kick out a character, you cannot even disagree with their view – you can only support them and say what the devs have decided.

- Interactions with characters and romance:
The interactions in the first third of the game are weakest again (collecting berries, talking to innanimate objects and other stupidities), but if you push through, then the stories and the characters themselves become much more interesting. I especially liked Emmrich and Bellara's stories.
Romance is mediocre and not a big part of the game overall. You have several scripted scenes mostly towards the end of the game and no special interactions (even ability to talk more with that character). Also, they have avoided any conflict when you try to romance several people - this is unrealistic and makes romances feel very meaningless. Early flirting with many characters is ok, but I reached with two characters a point where they express strong feelings, I locked in with one of them and the other never even acknowledged that, as if someone erased their memory and nothing happened.
Rook is largely ignored outside of the predefined cutscenes with companions. You see two of them talking, you come close, they finish their conversation and start looking at you silently like an imposter (they could at least greet you, better yet - include you). If you visit their room, they brush you off. You have no chance to talk to them, ask questions or anything. So I simply gave up and do not interact unless specifically called for.

- Diversity:
Bioware have always been on the forefront when it comes to diveristy and have created some of the best characters across ME and DA games. DAV is not much different, having mostly well fitting diverse characters. However, as there were some heated discussions on "wokeness" that could needlessly prevent someone from buying the game, I decided to pay special attention to that - these several scenes with Taash are very small part (maybe less than 1%) of the game and blown way out of proportion. For me, the biggest problem is that the character is written poorly as a teenager personality instead of a grown person, that the writers are using contemporary terms that do not fit and, as with everything else, that you do not have a choice on how to react.

- Gameplay
Although I do not like action style fighting and would have preferred tactical combat, this one is not too bad. It lacks any variety, however, and gets very repetitive. You basically click the same 2-3 buttons all the time.
They have basically destryed party combat - only two companions and they do not take damage and are immportal. If you are a warrior, you do not have a reason to jump and save your mage and, on the other hand, if you are the mage the enemies will still target mostly you.
The game is riddled with small puzzles everywhere - they are simple, but the sheer quantity is annoying, especially in the beginning when the maps feel like labyrinths where you solve many puzzles to find a way to move forward. Once you unlock more locations and teleports it is not so bad.

Crafting and equipment:
You can no longer craft, but only upgrade and enchant equipment. While this is not such a big issue for me, the fact that the equipment is tied to a specific character is. I can have multiple perfect rings or armour and I cannot equip it on my companions. I have to search for ones that are labeled for them.
 

TweetyTheBird
0
661 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 63

Not Recommended
86.1 hrs on record
Posted: 16 November, 2024
Never in my life I had been so disappointed with a game. Before anyone tries to pull the card that I am blinded by the nostalgia of the previous games, I had finished only Inquisition and only a few months ago. There is no nostalgia influencing my disappointment over the game — it's the game itself that is as bad as it was possible.

10 years of development and nothing had been done right; graphics, sure, this game is incredibly aesthetically pleasing, the most beautiful I've seen so far. Combat was entertaining. And that's where the positives end.

This game is a disgrace to the fans, to the lore, and to previous creators of the Dragon Age. There is no logic in their actions, rejecting their own lore and creating something new that has no roots, no connection to anything. The childish behaviour of the main characters — I'm speaking of Neve and Lucanis — throwing a fuss over Rook not going to save their city; i ask how one person is supposed to change anything, if whole team couldn't. The fact that support had been turned off after hardening gives me off the vibes of "You didn't play like I wanted you to do it, so no matter if we're fighting against the Evanuris that can destroy the world, I'll not heal you in the battle, go die for all I care". The reactions are childish and plain stupid. Not to mention apparently Minrathus relies only on Shadow Dragons? Where are the rest that were helping in previous games? Are they all not there, when it's needed? It's unlogical and ridiculous.

Companion's depth of character matches the lid of the pot. They are boring, unmemorable and sometimes even irritating in their lack of rationality. Taash is a crime against non-binary people, and I'm saying it as non-binary person themselves — this had potential, yet they had messed up so badly I only cringe when i see Taash. That growling made me physically sick. Bellara is irritating for most of the part, I had to skip her dialogue to not get headache. Neve is even more infuriating, I can't stand her. Lucanis is a huge disappointment after the hype he had received, I feel like he's a poor copy of Zevran. Emmrich, Davrin and Harding are so far the best of the main companions, I enjoyed their quests and never skipped anything. Still, the most interesting characters remain (to me): Myrna, Vorgoth, Viper, Viago and Thea. Give me more of them, and I'll be happy.

Romance. Hm, non-existent is the best word when I have to speak of Lucanis' one. Spite is cool, I like him, overall romance is buggy, boring and basically have no cutsecens. Merely one kiss and that's it. He was supposed to be steamy and awkward, the only steam that was there was mine caused by the headache I had when I realized how scammed we had been.

Characters are crystal clear, all have such good hearts, all wants to be saviours and all are oh so kissy. There's no morally grey characters here, there's no realizing. It's all sweet and fluffy that mere thought is making me feel sick. I never thought I'd miss my most hated characters in the Inquisition, but Sera and Vivienne at least had personality and stood up by their believes — no matter how it irritated me to be in the same room with them. They felt real. No one in Veilguard feels real — more like being taken straight from the fairytale for the children.

The fact we are to choose between Davrin or Harding and we cannot save them is ridiculous. Harding quite literally is has power of Titans, yet she used arrows against Ghilan'nain — the most irrational decision, the developers just wanted to kill someone off no matter how ridiculous it'd be. They nerfed Harding and her power. Did I mention before they go against their own lore?

Inquisitor. Solas. I was so excited to see them, and i saw them for exactly 3 minutes and 23 seconds. I believe that's the count. Was it touching? A little, because I was rooting for them. But there's not enough, it was hyped and again — fans were scammed. I read fanfics longer than that and made chats in Character.ai with better storyline for them than Bioware did. I don't know whether to laugh or cry at this point. Solas was amazing, as he always is, even if he had fallen to Disney-like vibes slightly as well.

Characters creator would be good if women were allowed to look like women. No breasts, build like a brick. My mother said they look Neanderthal. And she's correct about that one. Is being femme a crime to Bioware? Does the woman need to look and walk like a man so that she can be powerful? This game was supposed to be inclusive, why were women who are more curvy excluded from it? Is Bioware considering their bodies too sexual? Well, oversexualizing them is their problem. Those people deserve representation as well, especially since the company wants to be oh so open to everyone.

Endgame is good. I enjoyed it. Not as thrilling as I expected, with only one twist that I should've expected and the fact I didn't only shows how impatient I was to finish this damned game and uninstall it.

Overall, I cannot recommend this game to anyone. Maybe new fan that doesn't know the lore and won't have to be disappointed at every minute spent in this game. Literal children could play it, there's nothing they haven't seen already considering nowadays medias. And it feel like they were the target group of this — not adults, considering how naive that game is. I enjoyed first 20h of the game, the rest of it was a struggle to push through and I had to force myself. The happiness I felt when I could finally uninstall this game is unmeasurable.

5/10 for me.

I'm going back to the Inquisition to enjoy some real gaming and writing.
 

Can I pet that dawg
10
233 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 19

Not Recommended
230.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
I'll start with the advantages of the game, they still exist:
1. The gameplay is very pleasant, it's nice to run, it's nice to fight. Attention is paid to things that infuriate in many games, like unnecessarily long animations of climbing / getting off somewhere: everything is fast and smooth here.
2. The locations are very beautiful.
3. Leveling of the equipment is done surprisingly wisely. You're not messing up a bunch of low lvl junk items. Instead, equipment cannot be sold, each item is in one copy and when you would have to find/knock out/buy the same item, the one you had is improved instead. It may be a disadvantage for fans of managing things, but it was not bad for me, because over all these years I was already tired of the "traditional" approach to loot in RPGs.

Now what I didn't like about the game:
1. Cartoon graphics cause dissonance. Almost all the main characters and NPCs are unsympathetic: big heads, strange body proportions, ridiculous clothing designs.
2. The game is absolutely weak and childish in terms of the behavior of your character. You can't be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ (hello DAO and MAE), you can't even be just sarcastic, selfish, greedy, indifferent, or anything else that deflects you from the goody-two-shoes mark of a fool.
3. The game is absolutely weak and childish in terms of the behavior of other characters. Negative characters are caricatured and uninteresting, they won't even risk insulting you in dialogue more than "you're a fool", and even there are few of them. The world is like everyone is afraid to talk to each other normally.
4. The game is absolutely weak and childish in terms of partner conflicts. Yes, that most important part of the Bioware games is completely ruined.
5. The romance with the character I chose turned out to be a dummy. There was no chemistry, it seemed like my companion wasn't interested in my character at all for most of the game.
6. The frivolity of everything in spite of the content of the plot, up to the point of absurdity. We have two evil elven gods here staging an apocalypse, corruption is spreading on a scale never seen before, but the priority will be to discuss how to talk to someone properly. And these are not isolated cases, this is regularly the case. There is no atmosphere. Blood mages? Demons? Slavery? Templars? Conflicts with magicians? Well, all these things that set the tone in past games? They do not exist, except when they pop up in the dialogue in the context of "slavery is bad, venatori are not good people, okay?", and then we return to the discussion of "important" things.
7. There are a lot of puzzles, but they are all so simple that they can only break a six-year-old's head, and even that is not a fact. And after a couple of hours, they don't get any better.
8. "Everything is hand-touched, hand-crafted, very highly curated" according to Bioware, in practice it's running from one note/letter to another. Most of the quests have no depth, they are uninteresting.
9. Dull and monotonous fights. The opponents present no challenge. You spam with an auto-attack, and once a minute you trigger some kind of combo of companions, because the cooldown has passed.
10. As a continuation of the previous point, leveling does not make any sense when you can have only 4 skills and you will almost never use them. The ideal solution is to set an easy difficulty level and simply perceive each fight as a necessary routine. There are no tactics, no planning is needed, you can throw leveling points anywhere — what's the difference.
11. The illusion of choice. In 9 out of 10 cases, choices are 3 options that do the same thing. At best, they will influence which of the characters will approve of it (but approval feels like it doesn't do anything either, you can't even watch it). In conversations with your teammates, you have three different approval options and nothing else besides them.
12. Many players speak positively about optimization of the game, but I had such bugs: textures in locations periodically disappear, the store loads for a long time, after a lot of special effects on the screen the game crashes, and sometimes when I load the save, my character's appearance changes to a default bald character.

My impression of the game is negative, this game is a boring parody of Dragon age. The disappointment of the year.
 

Elefy
0
461 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 15

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Genuinely awful. And I say that not to take part in any kind of culture war, nor even as a particularly big Dragon Age fan. I played Dragon Age Origins and Dragon Age 2 but I was never a massive fan, I liked them well enough to play through them both to completion but never really replayed them.

In fact, I have quite a few good things to say about this game if I just take it for what it is and ignore what a poor job it does as a sequel; I like the combat system, I like the visuals, I like the character creator and I like the cinematography. They're all great. The hair physics are great. Even the story might be interesting, but I can't truly say that for sure.

And that's because of the writing. The writing is so, so awful. This could possibly be one of the worst written games of all time, certainly one of the worst I've ever played if not the worst. Within the first few hours of the game, you just go between one group and the next regurgitating the same information over and over, and not even in particularly interesting or new ways. You don't learn anything in the introduction through dialogue. Everything that's talked about is something you witness with your own eyes, but it repeats it to you over and over as if you'd forget what you saw and heard in the past 5 minutes.. every 5 minutes. It establishes almost nothing, just padding out time.

The dialogue 'choices' are non-existent. It's a complete illusion of choice. Maybe the dialogue options lead to your character saying something slightly different, but ultimately what is inferred is the exact same. There is also no wit. The 'witty' options in Dragon Age 2, for example, were usually funny; often snide or sarcastic in a similar way to Alistair in Dragon Age Origins. In here, it's nothing. I played for 5 hours and didn't so much as crack the slightest smile, despite taking what's supposed to be the funny option multiple times, in the vain hope I might just get something even mildly amusing.

But why I've only played 5 hours and dropped it is simply the constant banal babying the game does. The breaking point was when I entered a certain area with torture devices all over the room and mutilated bodies on top of tables with sharp torture implements littered around them, and the best thing one of my companions had to say was 'these people have been tortured'. No ♥♥♥♥, really?

Wow.

The worst part is the writing being bad means there's absolutely no way this could possibly be salvaged by mods or something. It's ingrained into the game itself, it permeates everything, and you can't enjoy any aspect of the game for long because you're constantly being assaulted by offensively bad dialogue and characterisation.

As of writing this review I've played 5 hours. I'm dropping it for now, I might pick it up just to try and get my money's worth out of it but I wouldn't recommend this to anyone that's bothered by negative IQ writing that insults you by assuming you're even more moronic than the writers themselves.
 

Kain
0
1,482 people found this review helpful
16 people found this review funny 56

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I REALLLLLLYYYY wanted to like this game. But i just cant. Combat and visuals are top notch, but the dialogue is just pure cringe.

Its like Disney got hold of the series and maybe some people like that type of "marvel" chatter. But not me.

I obviously never got far but im not made of money and ill refund this title. Its really a shame. I really wanted to like this, its been a while since i could sink my teeth into a well made rpg after BG3.

But that is not what this title is. Maybe on sale down the line
 

Xistryl
207 products in account
0
585 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 17

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Product refunded

I'm a long time fan of Dragon age series unfortunately this game does not have the same feeling as the others.

The main character feels like has no connection to what's going on.
The dialogue of the companion characters is very repetitive and uninspired.

The developers have lost sight of this series roots as a dark fantasy.

I have had the game refunded and will replay the orginal games that far out shine this mess.
 

Solidor
506 products in account
0
186 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 83

Not Recommended
13.8 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
I’ve been thinking and raging and writing my thoughts down in the past few days as they come with the fever of a schizophrenic who has uncovered irrefutable evidence of the existence of his gangstalker. I had written this review with a Recommended but “Eh” rating, went back and changed it, and now I am back again with hours of playthrough/cutscene footage under my belt because I refuse to give this game one more minute of my play time. Regardless, 10 hours was all I needed to immediately clock the problems this game had, and further research into what the game had in store for me via said playthroughs and reports from players who finished the game not only validated my fears, but soured and incensed me even further. No spoilers marked because I don't give a damn.

Before anyone draws conclusions about my reasons for hating this game, I’m going to preface: I’m a member of the “woke mob”. I’m one of those people that certain people think are ruining video games with our insistence on “DEI” and “diversity”. I’m a hardcore lefty. I’m an unapologetic LGBTQ2DVDROM. Now that being said:

This is the most offensively terrible entry to a story-based series I have ever played. Its audacity is eclipsed only by its mediocrity on all possible fronts except performance, and even then people report having issues with frame rates.This game is as devastating to the Dragon Age IP as Lucifer’s fall from the heavens, if he had first slammed his charred angelic body into the Earth and the magnitude of the impact spawned a ruinous crack into which he, broken and battered, tumbled further into a yawning abyss. This is a drop in writing and storytelling quality so profound that it feels like a punishment from God in recompense for my various unrepented sins. This is the unrecognizable mangled corpse of a cult classic IP delivered to us in cellophane direct from the soulless, cynical, artistically bankrupt bowels of 2024 Bioware/EA. For people like me who were holding out, I shall proclaim that this game serves as the unequivocal death knell of Bioware as a narrative-driven RPG maverick.

All trace of artistic flourish, all trace of nuance, thoughtfulness, depth, creativity, and genuine love for the world and its many facets is absent, scrubbed clean and whitewashed in favor of pushing a bland fantasy setting with some vague worldbuilding that remains slapdash and out of focus like clunky reading glasses filled with an inadequate prescription.

This is NOT a game for loyal Dragon Age fans who love the IP for the worldbuilding, the thoughtful and immersive dialogue and conversations, the hard-hitting themes, the gripping interpersonal relationships formed between NPCs or you and NPCs. No, this is a game for Action “RPG” fans whose brains have been rotted by a decade of MCU scripts and TikTok and wish to kill mobs in flashy and run around a bit in pretty but soulless zones while a vague semblance of a plot yammers on in the background, players whose favorite games present their themes with the subtlety of Sesame Street because people these days possess brains so thoroughly cooked by social media and battle passes they can’t find any enjoyment in something more harrowing and narratively complex than Pat the Bunny.


Dragon Age: Origins came out the gate swinging as a dark fantasy. Dragon Age 2, for all its flaws, continued the trend with dark themes. Inquisition, also fair to middling, is absolved of its mediocrity solely for the solidity of its character writing and the weaving of jaw-dropping, world-shifting revelations revealed at the climax of its DLCs. Veilguard takes all of that momentum, all of that precedence in terms of tone, world building, and characterization, and throws it away. Just chucks it in the bin. Worse, Veilguard cynically, cruelly, spitefully, and flippantly writes around or outright nullifies every major choice you made in prior games by either undoing it or failing to incorporate it into this ‘new canon’. At one point in the game it is reported that the Blight has taken over the southern continent, notably—and almost spitefully— striking the places where your previous PCs had the most impact. All of your efforts, the weight of your previous decisions, the character and STORY defining ultimatums in each prior game—undone and rendered futile in the end. It’s the most hack job attempt at giving a clean slate I’ve ever seen. The fact it’s relayed to you in a conversation is even more despicable. This “whole new world going forward” notion falls flat on its ass. I don’t want to have any new adventures in this world when you've demonstrated you can't successfully conclude an epic tale told in the sandbox you yourself built. If this is supposed to be a commentary on how entropy is inevitable, it’s a piss-poor attempt at conveying that. It is cynical, it is disrespectful to all the creative effort by so many talented people in years past who endeavored to craft an interesting setting with unique, memorable characters and lore.

When writing a reboot into a story, it is optimal to do so after the pressing events of the story have reached its climax. With Veilguard, the very lore and world is being erased before your very eyes as you play. Certain facets of the universe—characters, political institutions, cultural markers, universal laws, even locations—are loudly absent, ignored, destroyed, or retconned. It is as if someone is pulling up meters of train tracks as soon as the train passes over them. Examples: No slavery shown in Tevinter; Dalish and city elves are essentially the same people now; the Chantry isn't featured as even a force to deal with; lyrium plays no part in mage abilities in combat; no agents of Fen'Harel (Solas is apparently working entirely alone despite the comics and Tevinter Nights saying he had followers working for him); everyone accepts the Elvhen gods as real and evil at face value; Antivan Crows are apparently good guys now; mages are said to be treated well under the Qun; THE QUNARI HAVE GUNS; being an abomination is apparently totally fine with everybody (Lucanis).

As for your PC: Rook isn’t a Dragon Age protagonist. Rook is designed to be a stand-in for people who never played Dragon Age, don’t care about diving deep into the lore, and aren’t interested in the romance mechanics. Rook is designed to be said bland avatar so that non-DA fans (who for some ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ reason decided to pick up and play Dragon Age 4 FIRST) have a pawn to control and navigate through the world in the most superficial and rudimentary manner possible. The rest of the NPCs exist as cardboard cutouts to say embarrassingly unpolished and uninspired BORING dialogue with the depth of a kiddie pool. No one has anything remarkable or engaging to say. Your romances are as stimulating as a virtual GF/BF app.

And the mishandling of Solas as the villain is unforgivable. So much potential, so much THERE, and they sidelined him 20 minutes in and give next to no opportunities to have you as Rook personally interact with him. You are given the opportunity to collect memories of his past, but that is no replacement for talking to the man himself. The worst part is that everything revealed was theorized by fans years ago.

I have never in my life seen something like this occur in a piece of media, skips over perturbing into unsettling before landing into dumbfounding. How could they have possibly thought this was the direction to go after people have waited 10 years for this denouement to a story from a once-beloved household name in the RPG genre?

We know what happened. EA does what it does best, which is destroy good things and fire, lay off, drive off the creative minds that give a damn about presenting people with something quality. Pretty much every original writer of Bioware from its early days of Dragon Age is gone, and clearly all they had to replace them with were raised on a pure diet of Steven Universe and Tumblr Millennial whimsy.
 

ShonaNingyo
446 products in account
0
175 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
69.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
It's a competent basic action-RPG, with young-adult level writing. It's also georgeus, and this engine will make firefights in Mass Effect amazing.
But it's not a Dragons Age, nor a full grown RPG game.

Boring level'ups, item upgrades straight from a mobile game, limited world exploration, you won't have long chat's with NPCs while trying to solve quests, characters are shallow as a players first D&D character. I think even God of War Ragnarok was a more of an "RPG" then this game.

Also the "HR is in the room" is not a meme. Everything got made very black & white. There's no Renegade option, not even speaking about anything evil. The strongest option when talking to your team members is "Oh I'm sorry". Everyone are fun and happy. What happened to the whole world being racist to elves? What happened to the religious issues? Qunari went from interesting weird social construct, to the literary Big Evil Bad guys (maybe just paint them green and name them Orcs). Also Antivan Crows are now more of charming freedom fighters then a terrifiying assasins guild. Blight monsters went from creepy to just some basic monsters copied from game like Kingdoms of Amalur. Also remember the danger of blight and getting infected?
This game had it's clawes and it's soul was removed. And it's sad because something amazing was lost.
 

Vandal
0
376 people found this review helpful 5

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Product refunded

I fell in love with Dragon Age when I was young. DAO was, and still is, the best. However, DA: The Veilguard just isn’t for me.

The graphics were great, but they weren’t the main reason I wanted to try it. The dialogue felt repetitive and made me want to skip through it, as it kept delivering the same information from the 15-minute mark until 2.5 hours in. It didn’t develop the characters, just served as an overwhelming info dump.

As for the gameplay, it’s fine—not particularly fun, but that’s not what drew me to Dragon Age in the first place.
 

Shester Angriff
0
245 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
Long time DA fan, first steam review. A few hours in and wishing I didn't buy this game. Many of the changes I can live with, and no issues with diversity and representation, but the cartoonish character designs, the cartoonish darkspawn and campy dialog in modern tone and voices are crimes against Dragon Age and other Bioware RPGs. "It's kind of my thing" says my companion after tinkering with an incredibly ancient mysterious Elven device.

The reviews were right - Tonally inconsistent, and changing/ignoring lore send strong soft reboot vibes, blatant God of War ripoffs (turning to squeeze through narrow openings), companions during combat are invincible so I don't care about them at all (neither do my enemies apparently) and its annoying to have to constantly set up their powers. This game feels like some EA exec told the team to mash up Fortnite, Baldur's Gate, and God of War and we ended up with a worse version of all three.

Really the only positive I have so far is that the game is absolutely gorgeous.

I've been invested in this story for over 10 years so I'll see it to the end, but it will be with a sad, disappointed heart. Maybe I'll change this review in the future.
 

thefightintitan
0
1,589 people found this review helpful
17 people found this review funny 114

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Nope.

This game spent nearly ten years in development- and it shows, both in good ways and bad ways.

Visually, it looks really good. Until we get to the characters.
Character design is one of the most important parts of a "traditional" Bioware game, in my opinion.
If I don't find the companions appealing, then the game doesn't hold much value for me as a Bioware title.
The heads are over-sized, and it's a baffling design choice. I'm assuming that there was some sort of broken logic behind it- something along the lines of "the face is a canvas for emotion, so lets give everyone a MASSIVE canvas".
Whatever the reason for it, it doesn't land. The design is somewhere between Dreamworks and FunkoPop.
The comparison to the human characters in Shrek is absolutely perfect.
The world itself, though? It looks amazing. And it runs surprisingly well on launch-day, which is rare in the 2020s.

When it comes to combat, it's a win for me.
I've been enjoying this aspect a lot more than expected.
Forewarning; I did not like the combat in any previous Dragon Age game.
I always enjoyed the writing, the characters, and the RPG mechanics,
but the combat always felt like a chore that I was trudging through in order to access the "fun" part of the games.
In Veilguard, it feels like the opposite. The combat feels like a very simplified blend of a Soulslike and one of the Arkham games.
It's not difficult by any means, but it's engaging enough to be enjoyable- especially in comparison to something like Dragon Age: Inquisition.

But the MAIN part of a Bioware game for me is the character writing, and this is the tipping-point that has me dropping a downvote.
The actual stylistic design of people in general is bad, but then you have the specific design of the companions making it all even worse somehow.
Then you take those bad designs and slap a terrible personality on top, 'brough to life' by abysmal writing, and voiced by what might as well have been an AI from 2020, all the forced-diversity of a McDonalds advertisement, and you have the entire roster of companions summed-up.

The writing feels like it would be at-home in a Rated-E version of Fable.
Nothing is sincere, nothing strays too far into "dark" territory, the only time things get "serious" is when characters turn into sock-puppets for the writers to preach their sermons at you.

If you align with the propaganda that they've been peddling during the marketing-campaign over the past year, then you'll probably enjoy this game- go for it. It has all the colorful, safe, friendly, sterile content that you could ever want.

If you were hoping that this game was as nuanced and dark as the previous entries in the game like I was, then you'll be disappointed.
The game is exactly what I expected when it comes to the characters and writing- and that's unfortunate.
I was hoping that it was just the rage-bait mob exaggerating the severity of how bad this is, but it truly is irredeemable once you're engaging with any of the writing / characters / world.

This ain't Dragon Age, dude.
This is Forspoken with dialogue-options.
 

Dave Johnson
1,181 products in account
0
176 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
16.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
This review comes with a caveat.

I do not think this is a bad game per-se, but it is not something that I can recommend. Veilguard is a game that is intended for a specific audience, and that audience is not me anymore.

I've played a good amount now, past the opening hours, and I think at this point what I've seen is a good reflection of what the game has to offer. There have been some moments that I've enjoyed, but at the end of the day this is aimed towards a younger audience, and the story is written to reflect that. It results in something that is less mature, less complex, and less interesting than its peers, or even other Dragon Age games.

I'm not oblivious to the fact that Dragon Age has been trending this direction since Origins, but this is the first time where I just can't enjoy it or look past something that is written for an audience I am not a part of. I played each of the games again in anticipation to this one, and I don't think I intend to ever finish this one. It's not for me, and I don't think it's necessary to push through something I'm not enjoying just because I've waited ten years. I've made peace with it, and it doesn't ever take away from my enjoyment of the previous games.

But understand what you are going to get if you decide to play. The tone is much lighter, it's much less mature, and is the end state of the gradual sanitization of the series as time has gone on. Writing and banter does rely on quips, humor, and immature delivery. Some of these characters genuinely do not feel or talk like adults. It is especially unfortunate because the times when the game did decide to be serious, it was good. But that is exception, not the norm.

But does that mean that Veilguard is a bad game? No. But it's not for me, and if you want a mature game, one with narrative complexity, or adult dialogue, it might not be for you either. If that is something you can look past, there's actually stuff here that I think is objectively good. The combat is among the best of the series, the art style looks better in practice than promos, the music is great, and there is a lot of companion interactions and cutscenes.

This isn't what I hoped for after waiting ten years, but after finishing Inquisition, I think that was a fine place to end things. This is where I say goodbye to Dragon Age for now. Maybe one day there will be a shift back to a tone and writing that attracted me in the first place, but if not, then it was a good run, and I don't regret my time spent in this universe whatsoever.
 

Xabiar
0
135 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
68.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 March
I'm just going to pretend this game does not exist and stay with the post-Trespasser scenario I have in my head.
 

prphawk
22 products in account
1
165 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
36.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
While the gameplay is fun, the story is atrocious in how it handles past games and those who were fans of them. Not only is the slate "wiped clean" in an unceremonious letter (like not even a cutscene), but all the nuance of past villains is sucked dry by the "secret ending." If you liked the past games then I would not recommend Veilguard, and if you have not played them before or simply don't care then Veilguard is a fine game, but I personally cannot get over the middle finger the devs have given longtime fans.
 

ForeverFroze
457 products in account
0
529 people found this review helpful
14 people found this review funny 29

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 6 November, 2024
Feels more like a workplace behaviour seminar than an RPG. The only role you can play is that of a nice person, all the dialog choices are just "Yes" said in a different way.

I actually like the combat, but the story is just too painful to even get through. I can only play 30 min at a time before I need to walk away due to cringe, and then I convince myself to give it another go just to only last another 30 min.
 

Dezzy
9
235 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
15.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
Middling rpg lite. 90% of the rpg mechanics are removed or streamlined. My biggest issue is labeling this as the next mainline Dragon age game, feels more like a spinoff game. It's like the Diablo Immortal of Dragon Age. If you're a Dragon Age Origins fan just keep playing Baldurs Gate 3 there's not much for you here.
 

kamelpurnell
0
211 people found this review helpful 8

Not Recommended
41.5 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
I echo a lot of the TLDRs that its a decent RPG, but a bad Dragon Age game, I can't recommend it, however, because most people aren't buying it for another RPG, but because it has the Dragon Age label. Surprises and deviations are only worth recommending if they are better than the expected product.

The writing is shallow. The humor is gone. Dragon Age used to be this great balance of a dark grim fantasy that had a delightful contrast of humor and wit. The grim-wit combo is extremely lacking. I used to be unable to deviate from the humor option in Dragon Age 2 because the option made me laugh. I have yet to see any good witty sarcasm from that option here.

Combat has been interesting. Not as bad as I thought, but also kind of shallow for an RPG. Something nice but not redeeming (A sentence i found myself saying a few times.)

In short, I haven't been able to immerse. I haven't found MY character. And the rest of the characters aren't worth the sacrifice.

I also find it telling that no DLC is planned. Most Dragon Age games have had very famous DLC attached to it that was a wonderful addition or epilogue.
 

Panderous
1,517 products in account
1
176 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
165.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Feels like a very polished Mass Effect Andromeda. Insane amount of exposition, dialogue is ok at best, and terrible at worst. My Rook is forced to be joyful, helpful, smile when I don't intend them to (no, I don't want to be evil, but there are no renegade options and just being stern is very rare).

The game runs perfectly, the combat is pretty good, the graphics themselves are also pretty good but the art style is a hit and miss. Especially the armor is all too extravagant and there is a sever lack of grounded, dark options.

Most importantly though, it just feels wooden and clunky. The voice acting (despite having really good voice actors) feels bad. The delivery is sanitized and the way too chippy for my liking. There is nothing that makes me go "oh that is so cool" when compared to previous Bioware games. The Mage-killer in this game feels like a discount Thane, Bellara feels like an even more annoying Peebee and Neve feels like a very flat attempt at a "strong, powerful woman, Cassandra type (who I LOVE)" who I am being TOLD is this phenomenal detective but I am yet to see it in any way.

All in all, it's not terrible but it's not amazing either. Not worth 10 years of waiting. Especially the writing, it just pales in comparison to the first 3 games. The franchise seems to have been infantilized.
 

Windwalker
49 products in account
2
337 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 24

Not Recommended
22.1 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
It literally pains me to write a negative review for this game. If you're looking for some alt-right grifting here, look elsewhere. I'm a lesbian, and I love representation in games. However, The Veilguard is a whole MESS. The writing is extremely poor, the story is boring, it feels like they only put effort into the codex entries (which are amazing). I see absolutely zero reason why the Inquisitor couldn't have been the protagonist. Rook is literally Just Some Guy, and an annoying one at that. Facial animations are bad, sound design is bad, music is lacking basically everywhere. Oh and you know that super cool city location in Minrathous the game opens in? You literally never go back there 🤗 instead you fumble around the narrow limited corridors of Dock Town, which is so generic it could have been ripped straight from DA2 Kirkwall. Solas is super absent, which is maybe the reason why they had to rename the game last minute, but it's a bad move as he is maybe the only compelling piece of this game.

Reminds me a Lot of Hogwarts Legacy. Which I keep installing, playing for 1 hr, and uninstalling. I never imagined a BioWare game could hold my attention so poorly. And I literally finished Andromeda. :( I'm really sad
 

ellereve16
40 products in account
10
318 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 23

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Dragon Age: Veilguard – A Disappointing Step Backwards


I had high hopes for Dragon Age: Veilguard, especially as a dedicated fan who has replayed the original trilogy multiple times. Unfortunately, this latest installment falls short in almost every area, delivering a lackluster experience that feels both shallow and patronizing.

Character Design and Development: The characters are bland, nearly indistinguishable from each other, and lack any real individuality. Instead of the rich personalities and complex relationships we've come to love in Dragon Age games, the companions in Veilguard come off as part of a homogeneous clique where everyone just gets along with no real conflict or friction. The absence of a renegade path is particularly frustrating—there’s no room to shape your character’s morality, making the game feel like it’s forcing you down a single narrative path. This erodes the sense of player agency that was so strong in previous games.

Gameplay and Combat: Gameplay feels like a step back to the corridor-running days of Dragon Age: Origins, with an uninspired, linear level design. The combat system is oversimplified, offering only three skills per character, making every battle a monotonous button-mashing affair. The lack of strategic options and meaningful skills turns combat into a chore, devoid of the tactical depth that Inquisition introduced with its flexible skill sets and party commands.

Story and Lore: The story is weak, disjointed, and lacks the epic, branching narratives fans expect. Choices made in previous games seem pointless, and any attempts at world-building feel half-hearted. The lore feels retconned to the point of absurdity, with changes that make it feel more like a piece of fanfiction than a true addition to the Dragon Age universe. As a long-time fan, it’s disheartening to see the rich, cohesive history of the series treated so carelessly.

Character Creation and Visuals: While character creation has marginally improved, the aesthetics are still disappointing. No matter how hard I tried, my elf protagonist looked unnatural, with awkward facial features and disproportionate body shapes that felt cartoonish rather than realistic. This is especially frustrating given the advancements in character design in other recent RPGs.

Inclusion and Progressive Themes: The original games balanced real-world themes with nuanced storytelling. However, Veilguard feels overbearing and heavy-handed in its attempts at "progressiveness," often to the detriment of the story and immersion. As someone who values inclusive representation, it was disappointing to find that the execution here felt more like a checklist than an authentic, integrated part of the world.

Final Thoughts: Ultimately, Dragon Age: Veilguard is a lackluster, regressive addition to the franchise. It lacks the compelling story, character depth, and intricate gameplay that made previous installments memorable. As a die-hard fan, I wanted to love this game, but it misses the mark on nearly every front.
 

Taint Dragger
1,096 products in account
13
159 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
124.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
As an action rpg video game, this game is fun enough and has some engaging systems that I enjoy. Mage gameplay is snappy and fun, the levels are pretty and finding loot upgrades feels good. I'm enjoying seeing my Rook in cutscenes and the voice acting performance for female Rook 1 is stellar.

I write this review at the end of Act 1 after roughly 35 hours of gameplay, so perhaps these issues will improve with more progress into the main story - but even then, the pacing of such exposition is terribly late. (Edit: after a couple of hours more I have sadly decided to DNF this game)

As a character driven, storytelling rpg, this game is sadly both underwhelming and disappointing. Decades of worldbuilding has been swept under the rug: the cultural challenges that we faced in the previous trilogy seem forgotten or deliberately omitted, opposing factions are simply Bad Guys without redeeming qualities or intriguing motivations and allying factions are unproblematic to the point where their past questionable reputation has been retconned in favour of allowing every organisation to be the Good Guys.

The main gripe I have - revelations made at the end of DA:I that have world-changing implications for certain cultures are simply reacted to with: "Oh! Okay :( Anyway" and the villains' main military forces make absolutely no sense to me, and isn't explained well enough that I am convinced of it either.

The world also forgets to be a character. The highlights of world- and character development happens in codex entries, that are well written but leave me wishing these lore tidbits were better communicated through gameplay. Each area feels like a content island that's simply a set dressing for gameplay lacking any life or nuance. You can no longer interact with *any* NPCs (or even your own companions) outside of the occasional "press A to hear a short voiced line" or scripted cutscene.

It is a world devoid of life that serves as a more arcadey video game platform, as it attempts to do what God of War does but without delivering the same level of mystery and forlorn atmosphere that makes that world interesting. This game certainly could have benefitted from a Mimir style narrator to give context and commentary on the lore we otherwise no longer encounter.

I feared they would turn Solas into a Johnny Silverhand. Now, I kind of wish they had - just so that he could have given us a more nuanced perspective of the world.

As a Dragon Age fan who has been here for every single release since DA:O and loved every single game in spite of launch controversies, this is the first one I am severely disappointed by.

4/10.
 

Hwingal
202 products in account
1
79 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
64.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
There are 3 decisions.
Yes
Yes (Joke)
Yes (firm)

Maker's breath, where's the roleplay in my RPG? This is not Dragon Age.
 

Alandrus Sun
0
2,059 people found this review helpful
21 people found this review funny 120

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I don't think this game is terrible, but I do think this game is a terrible Dragon Age game.

I feel no connection to any of what made me enjoy the previous entries in this franchise. The dialog feels terribly out of place, and I feel no attachment to any of the characters.

The combat system is arguably an improvement from previous entries... but much like with Andromeda, I feel like they have moved too far off base to call this a true successor to the franchise.
 

Chaot3ch
506 products in account
0
221 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
97.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
So far the dialogue is horrible. Pointless and unrealistic talking points and the dialogue options doesn't seem to matter. Combat is simple and a little boring hopefully it feels better when the skill tree open up. I will update my review later
 

HoffaCity
39 products in account
0
298 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
36.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
"Veilguard" is best described as a spiritual successor rather than a true sequel, as none of the original developers seem to be involved anymore. It doesn't feel like the previous installments to me; it’s more of a spin-off that advances the storyline rather than a direct continuation. The gameplay leans more into action RPG territory, making it feel less open and free than past entries. While it's still an enjoyable experience, I personally found "Inquisition" more compelling.

The game meets my expectations, although I was hoping for something closer to the original experience. My main complaint is with the pacing. The story often feels rushed, as if it’s racing toward the next plot point. For instance, when you reach a faction, they instantly reveal everything you need, and moments later, you’re already at the central object of the questline. It lacks the gradual buildup that I enjoyed before.

Additionally, I’ve run into a technical issue. In larger cities, I experience what I call "stutter phases." My FPS drops dramatically to about 3, with GPU usage plunging to around 20%. This stuttering lasts for 5-12 seconds, after which the game stabilizes back to a smooth 60 FPS for around 5-20 minutes. It happens frequently in cities, sometimes in the forests, but never at the lighthouse. When stuttering isn’t present, the game runs efficiently, with my system hardly breaking a sweat according to Task Manager.
 

Björn
675 products in account
3
379 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
23.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
First off, I am a big fan of the Dragon Age universe. I fell in love with Dragon Age Origins, played Dragon Age 2, enjoyed the open-world of Dragon Age Inquisition and was looking forward to this installment in the series. Unfortunately it falls short of any expectations you may have had. While the graphics are amazing any other aspect of the game is poorly implemented.

Combat can feel incredibly floaty at times with seemingly little weight behind your attacks. Enemies are just an amalgamation of colours rather than distinct opponents. The darkspawn, a major theme in the Dragon Age world, have become a side note. The world itself is no longer open-world but linear in its design, this does not have to be a major drawback but the depth of the gameplay has suffered with it. Whereas in Dragon Age Inquisition you had mounts, different potions and a real tangible inventory you now have.. nothing. There exists mere corridors to fight in and to perform the odd simple puzzle, none too riviting. Moreover the writing is not particularly strong in this game.

Overall the game is a step backwards from Dragon Age Inquisition and you get less bang for your buck as it is much shorter. If you are a fan of the Dragon Age world you will still get some enjoyment out of it, no doubt, but not because of the greatness of its design. Any fun is fueled by the already established lore and the strength of the brand created by old Bioware. I would not recommend this game to anyone who hasn't already been craving a new Dragon Age game for ages, therefore a thumbs down from me.

 

Cleanfear
561 products in account
3
308 people found this review helpful 5

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Another reviewer summarized it best by saying they don't feel immersed by the game. Rook, the story, the companions, all make it so hard to be pulled into the world. It's mainly the writing is bad. I'm 6 hours in with regards to content for reference, but really would not recommend this game.

Rook is just an empty character and kept empty by unimpactful dialogue choices at every turn so you just feel like you're trying to be everyone's pal. Your dialogue options are usually "Agree Cheerfully", "Crack a Joke", and "Agree Sternly". I'm incapable of hurting NPC's feelings, so I stayed away from the stern options at first thinking that was the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ option, but it's already become my default because it's normal by comparison.

The nobody stumbling into heroics trope is fine, that's how the whole series kicks off stories, but this time you didn't even stumble into it. Varric just hired you sometime before the game and now you're in charge. Paper thin backstory is given for why Varric had even heard of you. You've been friends for a while now, don't you know? Even past that, compared to every other MC in the series, why does Rook even care?

The very front of the story is good, ramping up quickly, but then turns straight into railroaded companion collecting once you get past the marketing/demo/early access content prologue. You just hop around the world to get the next one right after the last. And I mean right after, there are actually cutscenes that teleport you back to the hub right as you resolve a mission/quest for and get your new friend. It's pretty jarring.

Not one of these companions so much as blinks when you ask them to join up with a stranger to Save The World. Not even some coincidental "wow my fate is bound to yours, guess I have to", they just nod their head and pledge their life to you freely. This is where it really feels like a Disney or Marvel universe story, everyone is just so damn heroic and selfless. The stakes are the world but everyone is cracking jokes and risking their lives like they're invincible, so there are no stakes.

And the companions themselves. Beyond the whole levity problem above, they are fine in isolation. There are good concepts and archetypes here, but as a party/team nothing comes together. There is zero interpersonal conflict: no dilemmas, no differences of opinion, no conflicting motivations. At one point, I decided to leave a man behind to die and there wasn't a word of discussion between my companions, just an X approves and Y disapproves notification to mark his passing. Everyone is just superficially supportive of everyone else at all times, and it feels so.. bland.

Everything else is fine. Just fine. But that's not enough when it can't tell a story.
 

Bees?
0
179 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 13

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
Product refunded

TLDR: *It's a reality enducing hammer kick to the balls of the last hopeful Bioware fans. ♥♥♥♥ EA and ♥♥♥♥ whatever fungus is currently operating the decomposing corpse of Bioware.*

I can't recommend this game. I hoped that the hate was unjustified, and that people were only hating because of the prominent LGBT inclusion, but unfortunately this game sucks and I refunded it after 3 hours.

For some context, I was a massive Bioware fan, multiple Nightmare playthroughs of all previous Dragon Age games + DLC, ~600 hours playtime, KOTOR 1+2, Jade Empire, the works. I even love Dragon Age 2, which was always considered the canary in the coalmine for Bioware.

I have two separate gripes with this game, the Writing, and the Gameplay.

For the Writing:

I started this game with some skepticism, but an open mind. I've seen bad reactions to overtly inclusive games before, and most of the time they're unjustified. I support inclusivity, and I hate whitewashing or cultural appropriation. I believe appropriate representation and respect for source cultures is very important in fiction. Too often we see North African/Middle Eastern mythology being whitewashed, and it does suck.

I'm Irish, and I can't say what I said above, and also not be mad about the changes to the Elves in this game. Elves in Dragon Age have always been inspired heavily by Celtic mythology, they always had Irish/Scottish accents and were based on the downtrodden of the British Isles. They were pasty famine-headed people who were either in serfdom to their Saxon overlords, or living in nomadic exile. All of a sudden they are a diverse pick and mix of anything goes ethnicity, with the only consistency being their suburban East Coast American accent. It's tone deaf, disloyal to the series, and it's bad writing.

The dialogue in general was also very low quality compared to previous games. Everything is on the nose and overexposed. In the 3 hours I played I had the entire context of what I had just experienced explained back to me 15 times. The Dragon Age franchise has always been mature, and at least somewhat subtle. This felt like I was watching an episode of Ben 10.

I could go on, but the tldr is they turned this into a Marvel movie. (The newer, worse, Marvel movies.)

For the Gameplay:

I could excuse bad writing, even in a story-centric RPG, I could cut the game some slack and give the writing a chance for a few more hours, if the gameplay was ACTUALLY GAMEPLAY. I put this game on Nightmare difficulty, and I proceeded to left-click my way through three hours of nothing combat against THE SAME ENEMY. If you like pressing one button to kill the same miscellaneous Shade creature with no possibility of ever losing, this might be the game for you. However, if that is you, I expect you could save yourself some money and buy a lava lamp to lick instead.

The combat is lazy, there is no depth or strategy, and there is no difficulty to it whatsoever. I understand catering to a casual audience, and I fully support the inclusion of Story mode/Normal difficulties for people who don't play a lot of video games. But Nightmare difficulty in this game is left click simulator. On top of that, the environments are empty, with nothing to find but more miscellaneous crafting materials and gold which I presume will give me access to some gear that will make the game EVEN MORE TRIVIAL.

All in all, this is a D tier game with the Dragon Age brand slapped on to try and bait people into buying it. It's boring, it's transparent, and above all else, *it's a reality enducing hammer kick to the balls of the last hopeful Bioware fans. ♥♥♥♥ EA and ♥♥♥♥ whatever fungus is currently operating the decomposing corpse of Bioware.*


(Also suck my balls if you say this game is not for Dragon Age fans, it's a ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ Dragon Age game)
 

h0gan
320 products in account
9
75 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
97.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 December, 2024
Before I offer my review of this product, I like to share a bit of my history with this franchise. In late 2019 I became a more consistent computer game player as I had more time than I did when I was younger. I found and played through “Dragon Age: Origins” and all DLC material available. I simply fell in love with the compelling, captivating, and immersive story; the lore; the companions; the choices; the consequences of my actions…! It was a journey that brough back memories of playing the tabletop first edition of advanced dungeons and dragons with my buddies some 40 years earlier! With an insatiable appetite, I immediately continued my exploration of Thedas by completing all the content for Dragon Age 2 (DA2) and Inquisition (DAI). I spend hours and hours getting to know more and more about Thedas and its people, places, politics, and plights. So, with eager anticipation, I waited ten long years for the next installment of the Dragon Age story…

The following are my thoughts, observations, and opinions of this next installment…

The game’s character creator is run-of-the-mill. I was not a big fan of all the options and the art style of my character. Upon completion, I felt my rook looked a bit cartoony, disproportional, and too clean/neat.

Upon completion of my character and starting the game, I felt like I got air dropped into the world of Minrathous’ action without much context as to why I was there. Although I was familiar with Varic Tethras from my DA2 and DAI characters, but as the player character, I could not help but wonder, how do Varic and I (Rook) know each other? How did we meet and why exactly am I here? In other words, what was my back story and how did come to be here? In addition, the more I played the more apparent it became that my character Rook really was not the main protagonist. My character really did not have any reason to be in this role. I mean, other than a quick few lines from a codex entry and some throw away lines mixed into a ton of meaningless dialog indicating your Rook in the main protagonist, there is no tangle reason why your character should even really give a rip about what is happening.

As for the music, I thought Hans Zimmer and Lorne Balfe’s composition was out of place and bit too futuristic for the overall setting. At certain times I got the impression I was playing a bit more of a sci-fi genre than a dark fantasy RPG with the music. In short, I would say the music did not help with my immersion into the game very well at all.

I choose the lowest difficulty level to fully concentrate on the story and it is here where I the most problems. For starters, I found the story to be weak, inept, and quite amateurish! It is clear the story writer(s) for this game were inexperienced and unskilled as they did not stay true to or respect the history and lore associated with the franchise. For instance, my previous choices from all the previous adventures were simply ignored or frivolously disregarded with a brush of a codex entry or throw away comment by a companion or NPC. Really? Is it not this feature that made BioWare such a great studio back so long ago?

Next, the dialog is more modern day and juvenile. It was as though it was written by a complete novice or second-grader. I expected much better from folks who are supposed to be professional game / dialog writers. For instance, the world of Thedas is in danger of being destroyed and the dialog from your party members is pollyannish at best. Their dialog is one of complete optimism and no urgency about the grim things that are happening. If I disagreed with the comment(s) of a companion or NPC, I did not truly have the option of saying something different or down-right ugly.

And if that was not enough, the identity politics dialog was completely immersion breaking, ham-fisted, and utterly offensive. The writing and interchange by your party members is utterly inconsistent with the established lore and times. Again, in previous DA stories, these types of topics were well written, presented with care, and within the context of the place or society within Thedas!

In addition to the story, the combat – for me - was a weak, demure, and tedious especially as the game went on. The enemy types are too few and damage sponges. By the end of this train wreck of a game, I did not want to engage in any of the combat because it was just a rinse and repeat from a task lazily done and created. Other, true DA titles not only had dark, gritty villains, monsters, darkspawn, and demons that appeared utterly menacing and fearful, but were each unique, varied with their own attack sequences and patterns. I found this part of the game to be completely void of creative talent and understanding of the previous adventures and lore.

As for what BioWare and EA did well on this title…

First, the environmental settings were extremely well done. The non-executive, front-line programmers and developers who worked on this aspect of the game are highly commended for creating an environment consistent to the original concept art and lore of the Dragon Age franchise. It is certainly evident these folks poured their passion into this aspect of the game. Very well done!

Second, BioWare / EA certainly “rooked” me into believing this piece of work was a “return to form” for the franchise. This so-called “return to form” is an utter lie. It is now apparent that the gaming media is a lap-dog to studios and publishers. The $80 price tag for the deluxe edition was a scam and simply a money grab.

Third, the “veil” of was kept over this piece of work until it was too late to get a refund. The further I got into this title in name only, the worse it got and I found myself not enjoying anything about it at all!

And lastly, they succeeded in firmly raising my “guard” for any other products they may release in the future. In other words, I have absolutely no faith that BioWare or EA will be able to deliver a quality Mass Effect game that is true to its lore and that is not riddled with bad writing and identity politics.

Given the monetary resources available to BioWare via EA, this game does not live up to a AAA game studio title at all! I would not recommend this game at all. It is not in-line with the other games within this franchise. If someone does decide to buy and play this title, I would suggest paying only $5-$10 USD.

Rating: 0/5
 

Milkyway Commando
820 products in account
12
87 people found this review helpful 7

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 November, 2024
They need to hire better writers
 

Guardianova
188 products in account
0
274 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
This is one of those games where I wish we had a more nuanced recommendation choice than Yes/No.

TL;DR – depends, weigh the Pro/Con list (very subjective are Cons for me).

Ultimately, I asked if I would tell someone to buy the game. My answer is No, because there’s a lot on context/caution I’d feel compelled to provide. Even after sleeping on it to see if I felt compelled to play today it really just hasn’t hooked me.

Just as a background, I’ve been a big BioWare fan, including Jade Empire, KotoR, and SWotR. I even have Anthem and ME:A. In the DA series DA:I is the first game I didn’t finish, because there was too much slog (poor pacing, poor level design, war table time slogs) to overcome for me to stick it out.

I was cautious about DA:V but after reading through the divisive takes on the preview I knew I’d give it a shot. I was less optimistic after watching several pro and negative reviews coming up to release but decided to lean on the Steam refund policy (which I’ve never used before) as a safety net and give it a try.

1 ½ hours in I’m still mixed on it. It is better than the negative reviews lead me to fear, but several things I saw in those reviews have resonated even in this short playtime.

Pros:
Pacing is way better than DA:I.
There’s a lot of action right off the bat which picks back up quickly after the first break.
So far, I’ve enjoyed the story – might be because I never finished DA:I.

Cons:
Some of the voice line delivery is very flat for the scene, undermining the intensity.
Level design is improved compared it DA:I (which I found too large and bloated with busy work icons), but at least early on it feels a lot like DA2 where it’s very linear and limited.
I did encounter a crash to desktop ~70 minutes in for “physically removing the GPU” during play. I’m running an i9-13900KF 3.00 GHz, 64 GB RAM, and a GeForce RTX 4090 so hardware isn’t the issue. I did upgrade to the newest driver released last week, but haven’t played long enough to confirm if that fixes the issue.

Very subjective:
Combat
Action combat is my least favorite system (turn based > RTwP > Action). Even among Action combat games this feels simpler, and I always hated the ME take on commanding teammates. It has not improved here. That being said, one of my biggest complaints with Action combat systems is they don’t always feel responsive, and I do not have that complaint with DA;V. I can get my character to do what I want, when I want which is a core requirement. I had complaints about how spongy enemies got over the ME series where the last ¼ of ME3 was just unbearable for me, so I’ve just been playing on the lower difficulties to avoid it. I can see spongy being a concern at higher difficulties.
Art
Obviously, a turn towards cartoony which I’m just not a fan of, especially in a series that has been darker in themes historically. I really despise the Qunari overhaul too.

Conclusion:
I would not recommend this outright. If someone asked how I felt, I’d say it’s ok. Nothing really stood out or is compelling me to continue. It starts off pretty good, but I thought ME:A and DA:I did too before the shine wore off and I couldn’t bring myself to force my way through it.
Given some of the great releases we had in 2023 and early 2024 (BG3, Rogue Trader, Horizon Forbidden West) this doesn’t come anywhere close to the recent RPG quality. I would say take advantage of the refund window to kick the tires and decide for yourself.
 

greywolf00
2,545 products in account
0
42 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
263.7 hrs on record
Posted: 22 March
I've got thousands of hours in the DA series over the last decade+ as it's been one of the most enduring hyperfixations in my life. I played every possible dialogue option and path in DA4 (which wasn't many). I can't recommend this game. Why:

DA to me at its core means 2 things: 1 a cast of dynamic characters, and 2 choices that alter the state of the world. DA4 offers neither. Further I expect, implicit to the genre Role Playing Game, that we are able to play differing roles. DA4 stretches this definition to its limit.

I'll start there. Hawke had 3 distinct personalities. Rook has Nice, Laughing, or Blunt Joke Delivery. It is more a smile meter than a personality distinction, bc Rook will always be the same character no matter what. You will be lame, insist on lightening the mood with a bad joke, relentless and Willing To Do Whatever It Takes, you can choose to just not talk to your companions to try to make a careless character but if you do choose to talk to them you will always be a character that asks how they're doing (and always offer the help of "I'll be here" with or without a joke).

Rook is plucky sidekick character the :) :P or :| version. The lack of choice actually begins in the CC, as all 6 faction choices are ultimately the exact same story and they will not ever matter. And while you can headcanon your PC as any age, they will be referred to as "kid" and your older companion will always treat you as his younger so you get the impression you're meant to be a young adult no matter what.

This leads to 2) game choice. Of which this game lacks. Severely. There is, of course, one Virmire-esque choice to save City A or B early on. But that has very little impact on your gameplay, and becomes almost entirely cosmetic. Aside from this, there are no small plots for you to intervene in and change the course of the game within. It's no wonder they relinquished the use of the Keep because there would be one single panel for this game beyond the one single companion panel everyone would have. Because they all have a singular, binary choice of this or that and this is the core of their character development (and you can't even choose who you recruit).

So we're at 1) the characters. The people feel missing. You don't get to know your companions at all. A dev said that it was a choice between the at-will conversations we used to get, or allow the companions to have banter inside your homebase at different locations other than their own rooms...and they chose the latter. Which feels really emblematic of this game: it's about telling, not showing. You are told how to feel. It is important that you see people talking (but you don't say anything because you wouldn't change anything because you don't matter because you are only here to listen and witness, not challenge and engage). The story that was always meant to happen will happen, and there is no other choice. It's devoid of feeling.

I don't know how Lucanis feels about the ruling class of Antiva or even how he feels about his Crow upbringing. I know he loves Treviso and his family. I don't know what effect it had on Lace to be an Inquisition scout at 17 (iirc?), I don't even know what she thinks of the Inquisitor's decision to disband the org or not! I know she is a sweetheart though! I don't know what Neve's life has been like as a mage in Tevinter and how she feels about the culture there, the Chantry, the Circle, the Templars or the slaves. I know she loves Docktown. I don't know anything about Bellara's or Davrin's clans, and I'll stop before I wordwall further. The companions don't share their interiority with you, not even in a romance path. They are just each blank slate supporting cast. No opinions. No prejudices. No beliefs. Nothing but "happy to be here" vibes. The companions do not have real conflict. It feels odd, and highly manufactured.

Contrary to marketing, they do not feel like a "found family" simply because they are all courteous to one another. Everyone agrees and says "thank you for sharing that with me" and "thanks for being here". It feels very contrived. And the dialogue itself sounding so current-day is a huge gripe for me. It's been months since I played and I still remember Taash's line "these guys go hard," and that was not a unique occurrence. There's absolutely zero talk about the circles and the Chantry, but "these guys go hard"...it just doesn't sound like Thedas to me. It was jarring and imo badly written (and I'm an elf enjoyer so if you are as well, here is a heads up that you are Dalish and you are not Dalish at the same time bc the writing is that tight).

The characters are flat. If they're your companions, they're The Good Guys (even when they're literally The 1% bc they're from an ancestral line of the most privileged, aristocratic assassins in Thedas). If they're your allies, they're The Good Guys (even when they're literally The Assassins Ruling A Nation). If they're your opposition, they're The Bad Guys. And no, it's not for complicated reasons. They're The Bad Guys because they are Evil Doers. Ergo, you, The Good Guy, will punish them. By murder. But that doesn't change your status whatsoever. And there are no stakes. You cannot lose. Your character is not challenged, politically or personally. You are the hero, and that's that. No further questions.

It all felt like some Calvinist fantasy. I'm USAmerican so the Canadian imperialist angle is a foreign sibling I recognize the tune of but not the words to but that refrain felt utterly inescapable playing this game. It is obsessed with the status quo. There can be no peace, Anders once said. Well, the truth of this game, is that there can be no other option. Things are the way they are, and that's just the way it is. Do not fight for change, it's pointless. The system can work. With the right people in the right places, we can Build A Better World. Don't question how faceless and animal your Enemies are, they're Evil. And critically, You, The Goodest of Guys, can save the world from the Evil that is...societal change. The voiceless do not get a voice, but You, The Goodest of Guys with your Good Guy Squad, can say that you are that voice. These are the meaningless nothings this game aims to impart on you. Don't waste your time. You want a good Dragon Age game, play the other ones. The combat is fun if you think it is but for me it got tedious pretty quick. And the CC was ok but the stylistic change to give everyone huge chibified heads on little bodies in a 1:6 ratio (it is generally 1:8) paired with the airbrushed yassified skin textures, visually it is not for me.

It looks nice. The music is boring if pretty sometimes but I miss Morris desperately. The gameplay loop is boring and repetitive. The combat is flashier but significantly more limiting and thus boring. The puzzles do not exist, and the roadblocks we encounter of "go to laser pointer, point at item" are redundant and often feel pointless, on top of which you will have to endure the companions telling you 3 seconds in, "oh I think you need to [point the laser/shoot the ballista] at [specified location that is obvious already]" just to make sure you know you aren't being asked to do any thinking or anything, even at such incredibly low stakes.

There was zero political intrigue... in Dragon Age. The plotlines are uncomplicated with obvious villains and uninteresting conclusions. The lore was all over the place, at times contradictory. There is no actual role playing despite the category. There is a disturbing amount of auto dialogue in this game, even worse than ME3, giving even less PC control. There are not different worldstates to explore. You will finally have a conclusion to the Solas and Inquisitor storyline but it is so woefully unsatisfying that I almost wish this game had remained in development hell. And that's the thing. I just kinda wish it hadn't happened. :/ how about 2/10 for GDL and Claudia Black being fantastic as always
 

muffin
0
536 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 18

Not Recommended
20.5 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
first impressions are bad, to say the least.

its a clear reminder that game studios aren't just names... they're people. and the people have long since left.

the dialogue so far has been nothing but surface-level childish drivel, and the art style is extremely cartoony and just straight up goofy.

RIP Bioware


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EDIT:


Update after 14 hours:

The dialogue hasn't improved. It's still on-the-nose cringe, and the RPG elements are barely there. So far, there has been only ONE choice presented to the player. There are no multiple ways of handling quests or different outcomes. It's a theme park action game pretending to be Dragon Age.

The combat is... good enough? It’s action-oriented. Not the worst, not the best.

What’s even more frustrating is the decision to remove player choices from past games, making everything you did before irrelevant. This is especially jarring when they keep pushing legacy characters like Morrigan, Isabela, Varric, and the Inquisitor in your face. The way these old characters are used, without acknowledging your past choices, just feels lazy and disrespectful.
 

crybb
11
179 people found this review helpful 11

Not Recommended
9.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Ok so I don't normally do reviews. But I wanted to give everyone a fair warning. This game is completely different from all other Dragon Ages, with writing, story telling, combat, and feel. If you are wanting a good RPG (Not an ARPG) look else where. If you want non-repetitive combat, look else where. If you want an amazing story with twists and characters that pull you in ,look else where. It was poorly executed in my opinion.
Let me explain. They game looks amazing, but falls short with the fun. The "Puzzles" are so easy a five year old can do them. The story is just "safe" , or dumbed down at best. And none of the characters are fleshed out properly. Most of the recommends on here say only on a discount. Which to me says it isn't recommended. . And I would not recommend or purchase unless on a steep discount. I which I could get my money back.
 

joshua.james.goad
0
812 people found this review helpful
13 people found this review funny 33

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Not optimized at all.
The French dub is a mess and everybody speaks like in a modern movie instead of in a more proper, formal and "medieval" way like they did in all the other games.
The voices dont match the footage, like there's a delay.
The designs of Qunari and Demons are a mess (the Darkspawn too but there's a reason for it at least).
Why can everybody and their mom do magic all of a sudden ?
Why even if I pick a "rough" answer it is said in an lighthearted way ?

Character creation is very in depth, too bad everybody looks like a cartoon character with weird proportions and smooth skin.

1 hour in game, 5 minutes of actual gameplay and I'm already dissapointed. It might be a good game in the long run but it's definitely not Dragon Age.
Call it Fun Fantasy Adventures if you want, but not Dragon Age.


It really took the lore and trew it out the window...
 

Bastiwen
0
245 people found this review helpful 15

Not Recommended
27.3 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
Dragon Age: The Veilguard is a thematically bankrupt mess, that takes a dump on 15 years of beloved worldbuilding. It is full of infantilization, cringe inducing dialogue, maps that are incredibly gameified and almost never feel like real places, a basic story devoid of meaningful choice or moral nuance and a preachy and straight up condescending political messaging.

This game had so much potential for an engaging story, maybe more than every DA game before, 90% of which is squandered. The combat may be engaging, but Dragon Age games live and die by their worldbuilding, characters, dialogue and story, and Dragon Age: The Veilguard certainly dies by its worldbuilding, characters, dialogue and story.
 

Decanus
0
2,083 people found this review helpful
39 people found this review funny 41

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Hard to evaluate a game that crashes every ten minutes. Until it's fixed I can't recommend it... Year of polishing and I can't get through shader compilation without a couple of crashes.

EDIT: For anyone wondering about my PC specs:

CPU AMD Ryzen 9 3900X, 3,8GHz, 70MB, 105W, AM4
RAM Kingston FURY 64GB KIT DDR4 3600MHz CL18 Renegade Black
GPU Inno3D GeForce RTX 4090 X3 OC
MB Gigabyte X570 AORUS ULTRA, AM4, AMD X570, ATX
 

Miraider
104 products in account
27
223 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
This is not a Dragon Age game. They have removed all of the strategy, the joy of finding new loot, and worst of all, the Veilguard themselves are the most boring companions I have ever seen from a Bioware game.
 

Chadicus
0
58 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 10

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 24 January
Product refunded

Maybe the real Dragon Age 4 was the Baldur's Gate 3 we met along the way.
 

Moon Man
192 products in account
4
217 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
156.0 hrs on record
Posted: 21 November, 2024
Its pretty good if you skip all dialogue and character scenes, mute the voice audio while traveling and only focus on combat and interactions with Solas. I've never played a Dragon Age or rpg that made me dislike companions more than this game. Game-play out in the world is fun, environments are grand at times. The cartoonish design in visuals and personalities of characters is just disappointing and at times infuriating. It does not meet expectations for a game titled Dragon Age.
 

Biggity08
0
77 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 12

Not Recommended
35.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 November, 2024
I am 35 hours in and am now disinclined to finish this game. Maybe I will finish it in the future if I find myself ever caring to know how this story ends. I could wax poetic on the reasons that this game is a disappointment to me. However many others have given all of these reasons and more. There is no need to spend to many words on what has already been said. So I will just say how I feel.

This is a YA/PG game that co-opted the Dragon Age IP. This style direction led to every aspect of the story, characters, and dialogue to be reduced to a shallow representation of their potential. This is objectively a massive departure from the previous Dragon Age installments. As someone who has played every Dragon Age game and enjoyed them, I have to chastise the Directors of this project. I am someone that enjoyed Dragon Age 2 and replayed it half a dozen times, and considering the popular lack of enthusiasm for that game I would consider my love for it as proof of my willingness to put up with a lot of negatives to play, and enjoy a Dragon Age game. The people in charge of this project ignored, purposely or accidentally, the very foundational elements of Dragon Age. They then used the lore of the IP to create something that is a low effort copy of many other media projects that already exist. This feels like a 'regression to the mean', a lowering of standards to cater to the basic.

I suppose that a lot of my frustration with this project is also exacerbated by the larger center mass of media sweeping everything that came before away in a tidal wave of immature mediocrity. Many of the stories and universes that I enjoyed for the last twenty or more years have been harmed by this trend. The core audience of these IP's are well into adulthood. And yet someone made the choice to change a mature and deep world and story, began by Dragon Age Origins, originally enjoyed by teenagers and young adults, into a childish adventure game. Someone or someones made the wrong choice. This is an epidemic in media. Netfix's The Witcher, Disney's Star Wars, Bethesda's Starfield/Fallout 76, Amazon's The Rings of Power/Wheel of Time, and many more. These are all stories and worlds that I loved, all were reduced into some sort of modern second-rate disappointments.

In the end, this is NOT Dragon Age. This is mediocrity that used and abused a beloved IP to create something that cannot be enjoyed by people that loved what Dragon Age used to be. I'm not angry, just disappointed. By all of it.

Edited for grammar.
 

mauthe_doog
0
388 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 14

Not Recommended
56.3 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
"Contains Spoilers." 52 hrs. Completed all quests. I will judge this game as a sequel.

I honestly can't recommend this Dragon Age to the old fans of Dragon Age at full price, or really at all, even after finishing. It was a drag.
Quick summary, game is overall more about acceptance, diversity, and moving on in life.
Few good things, ran perfectly fine, environment looks great, and there's lot to explore.

Combat is ok, it's a simplified hack & slash, button spamming style. Light or strong attacks. Mages are practically just warriors, then battle mages, then full on mages near the end. (Dependent on mana build.)
Enemies mainly hard focus you instead of your teammates. This sucks when you're trying to do a combo, but easily avoided by just activating an ability and you don't take damage.
Cartoony, whimsical, cutesy feel I don't prefer for Dragon Age. This includes the enemies. Just unappealing,and not very interesting. Dragon fights are also all the same. So after you kill 1, you know how to beat the rest.

Dialogue is horrible, you hear and repeat the same stuff nearly every cut scene. You ok, you sure you're fine, we got to do this, we're going to do this, bla bla bla. This never changes, the whole game is like this. You will hear the same thing repeated constantly over and over.
I pick an elf, I seemingly don't know anything about elf history or even speak like I'm an elf in the dialogue 90% of the game. Race use to be a part of DA and have an impact on dialogue.
Solas is instantly backlined in the first act. He's not the big threat that was built up. Solas was useless, the whole game, then sacrificed at the end.

Your companion quests, are also just the same thing on repeat. Example being Harding, gets new powers, "I got these powers, who am I, what am I." You're still Harding. Next conversation same thing, and again, and again, confront her inner feelings, repeat again...This is the same thing for each companion quest. Davrin, just the whole time talks about how to train his Griffon and if hes good at it. Taash the kid that never grows up and fights with identity acceptance as a non binary and has mommy issues that you need to constantly back her on.
Romance was crap, (Bellara route), kiss > cut to black > finished.

The world, the game, and how everyone acts and talks doesn't even really feel like there's a threat. This doesn't really change much. Gets more gloomy near the end, but it's practically the same as like DA 2 was in the sense, but more cheerful.
Too much positivity, as weird as it sounds, this game is too good, you can't really be bad, even the ending. Spoiler, at least 2/3 endings I did were the same outcome, just how you reach it changes. Narrative choices have an impact, but 90% of the time I didn't feel they were that big of an impact. Biggest impact is you just grinding the game. Pick whatever choice you want mostly. They're all good choices, just different tones of good. There is no like, you suck, you threw the fight, you cost us, maybe you shouldn't be a part of the team, nothing like that. There just wasn't much risk taking involved in this.
 

Darkdrahethick
239 products in account
0
161 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
119.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
It's okay game but it's not dragon age, defenitly wasn't worth all those years of waiting.

Edit.
Writing is just abymsal It's mind boggling how person that wrote some of the best Dragon Age and Mass Effect characters could steep so low as a writing director. My favorite fantasy world got sanded down to the point that it lost all of it's charm, everything that could have been even remotly controversial got retconned or sweeped under the rug. Most of the time I play the game I get mad or just sad.
 

BOBCZAJS
277 products in account
0
184 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
70.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
EDIT:
Finished the game and I can say with certainty... it got worse. Bioware should have just started a new franchise, not completely erase every piece of established lore that was painstakingly crafted through the previous games, books, and comics. The "story" decisions are questionable at best, and vindictively lazy at worst.
I will admit there were occasional moments where I could see a glimmer of good writing, but those moments always very quickly passed.
Nearly all of the character interactions felt like a group therapy session of a toxic-positivity day-dreamer. This game is a parody.

I could go on... but frankly this game does not deserve any more of my attention.

ORIGINAL REVIEW:
This game is not a Dragon Age game, not in tone, and not in depth of writing. If you want a game that talks down to you and treats you like a child who cant pay attention to or keep track of a story, then this game is for you. This is not Dark Fantasy, there is no meaningful conflict between party members or Rook that leads to a satisfying resolution. This feels like a fan-fiction written by a high-schooler, with no respect to the original characters or story. You can feel throughout the game, a severe restriction on player agency. There is no "choice" available to you as the player, and there is no way to embody the type of Rook you want to be; outside of an "acceptable and forced" pre-set stereotypical children's show hero persona.
Having the same dialogue repeated incessantly is the most irritating thing I have ever experienced in a game, and through this game, I have discovered it as a pet-peeve of mine. So thanks, I guess.
I would also like to point out... my gripes with this game in this review are NOT TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THE DEI added in. I don't give a crap about DEI in games. What I can't handle, is bad writing.
I played Origins, DA:II, and Inquisition. I have read all of the books and comic books. I tried to like this game, I really did. I thought that if I could push past the drastic art style, combat and UI style, and focus on the story and characters... I could get over my initial hesitation over change. I get that my initial reaction to the game was based on an adverse reaction to change. Change is hard to get past some times, especially with a franchise that is responsible for my interest in games in the first place. My dislike of this game goes past this, however.
I feel I have wasted my money and I regret my purchase.
I will complete the game regardless, in a vain effort to remain as loyal as I can to great legacy that came before Dragon Age The Veilguard. The soul of Dragon Age has been killed, and I mourn that.
 

Oracleonfire
1
1,685 people found this review helpful
15 people found this review funny 72

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Dumbed down systems compared to old games, instanced missions and not open world in the slightest.

Simpler combat and party system, cringe-worthy NPC dialogue.

Not for everyone, some people will like it but it's not like DA:O which is still a better game despite its age.

 

Krato
0
235 people found this review helpful
14 people found this review funny 19

Not Recommended
23.9 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
If you're anti-woke, anti-diversity, anti-accessibility, this review is not for you.
As a Dragon Age fan from the beginning, a lover of Origins, DA2, and Inquisition, I cannot recommend this game.

I have been a Bioware apologist for many, many years. I said to myself that I would enjoy DA4, because, even if the gameplay was terrible, at least the story would be good. Well I've learned my lesson. If you care about the lore as much as I do, then you will be extremely disappointed in this game. It is absolutely not worth a purchase, unless you're alright with throwing away everything you did in the three games prior. I will never, ever be giving Bioware my money ever again.
 

kay
106 products in account
0
202 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Product refunded

This is a hard review to write. I have been a fan of this series my entire life and Dragon Age origins was the first RPG I ever played. Since then I have preorder and bought every game and DLC bioware has made for the franchise. I really wanted to like this game. The art style is cartoony, safe, smooth, and boring. The combat is cheap, underwhelming, uninspired, and trivial. After playing the game for 2 hours I was not excited to level up my character and grind gear, I was ready to go back to Dragons Dogma 2. Very sad and very disappointed.
 

vkfh
3
107 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
60.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
This game feels like some manager described Dragon Age to their team, not a single passionate person was in the studio, and they cobbled it together based on what fantasy they're familiar with.

The dialogue is terrible. My character is non stop saying "im sorry" so many times that I felt like I was about to get charged for therapy. You will hear more about coffee, and gender identity than you will about the rite of tranqulity, faith, languages, the harrowing, or basically any other element that makes this world interesting. Your companions will barely speak outside of scripted interactions. They rarely comment on anything ongoing in the world and are nothing more than glorified extra abilities.

The talents are incredibly shallow. On the surface they seem interesting because it may say something like "if wearing different types of equipment, gain X stats." but there are so many talents on the tree that end up cancelling each other out that it doesn't make any sense to take or invest in these talents. For example, enemies have damage type weaknesses, but there is a talent that turns all of my abilities into the same damage type. It feels like a noob trap and plays like one too.

I hate to say it, but i'm going to bash the artists as well. Some of the spells are flashy, but they feel VERY basic. They took Warrior/Rogue/Mage so literal and it's all the run-of-the-mill stuff. Just think about what those archetypes are stereotyped for and yep, that's what the skills look like. The warrior literally does an elbow drop as an ultimate ability. It's incredibly safe and uninteresting.

Tevinter was a major hype point for fans of the series. There was all talk and imagination about how this empire that is run by mages would look. We spend all of our time in the SLUMS of this city. It's wooden shacks and stalls and filled with a bunch of homeless or slaves. It is so boring and basic that you could swap this out with any city and you would never even know you were in Tevinter. Imagine if Cyberpunk took place during a camping trip instead of a city. All of the zones feel this generic.

I will admit there were a couple points in this game that were quite cool, but as soon as they concluded, the dread (wolf) seeped back in. The entire game feels like filler that was crafted around a couple hours worth of good content.

TL;DR - Basic Combat hidden under flashy paint; Lame art assests that could be used in any other game; Dialogue so underwhelming it it feels like it's from the storyboard outline instead of actually written dialogue; Still better than Starfield.
 

PropheticEvent
0
233 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
14.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
If you never touched Dragon Age games before, this game is ok at best. If you played DA games before, the main story is great, the environment design is great. Literally everything else is a step in the wrong direction.

In a age where we have RPG"s like Baulders Gate 3, Cyberpunk 2077 and many more, this is game proves that even AAA or AAAA games have their own tiers, and this one is a clear lower tier RPG compared to those.

Combat is engaging for the most part. Tho compared to previous titles of the series is the most simplified it has ever been. Im not far enough to tell you yet if the simplified combat will get boring, but I can definitely see it being so for some.

Main Story is by far the best part, specially if you are someone who played DA Inquisition. Side quests tho are not nearly to the level they were in previous games.

Companions, probably the worst part of the game. My main issue is how bland they all are. Each and every single one is so simple and lack complexity to the point they don't even seem like people. Their just 1 trope made into a character. The only ones that are actually interesting and that I personally enjoy seeing and listening too are the recurring characters from the previous games.

The dialogue between companions is also the worst we have see in a DA game . DA was a series that used to be lauded for its companions and their banter with each other. In this one companion banter is simply there to tell you the Player what is going on. They only talk about things to ensure you the Player are not confused about where to go or what to do. It not there to make you more immersed into the world around them or add to their character depth. They are just constant tutorial voice, you need to pull this level, you need to face the statues this way. You need to find the powerstone thingy, or this fog is thick or why is to so quiet over and over, tutorial speak, tutorial speak, tutorial speak. I have a at least halfway developed brain, I can see the obvious you don't need to keep telling me. Companion banter once a staple of the series is extremely lacking.
 

Duckie
0
29 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
77.6 hrs on record
Posted: 28 December, 2024
To sum up Dragon Age: The Veilguard in one sentence, I would say imagine if the Walt Disney Corporation attempted to make a Dragon Age game. This is a game takes zero chances with its formula and scrubs pretty much anything that would be considered adult in theme.

Pros:

Beautiful environments
Very good performance
Combat was fairly smooth
VO performances were well done
Some great lore drops

Cons:

Moment to moment writing is poor (they don't show, they tell)
Some glaring retcon of certain DA lore (the Antivan Crows are a terrible group that buys children at a very young age for a pittance and trains them into heartless killers. They are not a friendly family of freedom fighters. What the actual ♥♥♥♥ is this?)
Companions are mostly bland and don't exhibit believable behavior most of the time
Combat while smooth starts to become a slog very quickly
No meaningful choices until the end of the game
Lots of mindless filler quests that have little to no meaning
Everything is solved with the power of unicorns and friendship

I started writing a long in-depth review but after four paragraphs I decided to delete it. I think I could write ten pages on the cons of this game and only one on the pros. Let this be enough.
 

krzy_krn
0
86 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
8.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
on a technical level its pretty good, combat is good, performance is great with no bugs and very pretty world spaces.

But the writing is so bad; the dialogue is honestly the worst in any rpg i've personally played, made worse by some genuinely criminal voice acting; Neve in particular, either the voice actress or her director belong on Riker's Island for that performance. Its really a shame because i really like the lore and from what i hear the ending of the game is supposed to be really good, but I can't sit through this.

I paused my second run of bg3 to play this and after the first couple hours all i could think was "I'd rather be playing baldurs gate". I finally caved in during the beginning of Treviso when, with no effort, your immediately introduced to the head antivan crow and provided with some boringly delivered exposition while, for some reason in a high fantasy game, mass effectesque synth music was playing in the background.

I Think its safe to say the old bioware is gone have been for a long time, but it looks as though this game is selling well so hopefully this new bioware can improve its writing team in time for mass effect 5
 

NukaZiggy
0
71 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
46.1 hrs on record
Posted: 28 January
I love the Dragon Age series. DAO and Inquisition are in my top 3 RPGs of all time (behind Witcher 3). And in my Top 10 of all games. I wanted to like this game. Played the best part of 50 hours. But I am bored and have quit. Actually I took a 'break' and then realised I had no desire to come back. There is plenty to like. Gorgeous graphics. Decent UI. Lots of Quality of Life things implemented. Combat was fun at first. But it is so bland. No proper romance. No interesting choices. No politics. No interesting dialogue. The game is a load of instances so the world feels so small and claustrophobic. Crafting non-existent. Combat becomes boring and repetitive. I remember - when I had babies - I had about 2 hours a week to play games. I sometimes spent that whole two hours in Inquisition just going around the castle upgrading things and crafting. I remember in DAO feeling so sad that I had to sacrifice my character rather than Alexander because it felt right and he was to be King. And that scene in Inquisition when everyone sings at dawn - still gives me chills. I still remember all this years and years later. But Veilguard - I just stopped playing and I've forgotten it already.
 

nicksinger7
0
104 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
66.9 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Dragon Age The Veilguard...
If it were a stand alone game without the Dragon Age name I would've given it a positive review, at least I think so.

The game has pretty much barely and nothing to do with Dragon Age. Yes, there are name drops about previous characters but the world feeling and seems like anything BUT Dragon Age.
All Dragon Age games have been different, none have been alike and changed quite a bit of things, with Inquisition it seemed like they had finally found a balance between action and crpg similar to Dragon Age Origins and Dragon Age 2, but Dragon Age The Veilguard has nothing.

What made the previous Dragon Age games Dragon Age was
- 4 man party
- Ability to swap between teammates
- A skill tree and and action bar
- Pause with a "tactical" view (even if limited in some cases)
- Well written characters
- "Low" Dark Fantasy (There were crazy spells but nothing too insane)

The Veilguard have NOTHING about it, because in reality the Veilguard is more Mass Effect in fantasy land than Dragon Age.

- 3 man team
- Cannot control your teammates
- Only 4 skills to use
- No tactical view, just pause and give commands (that sometimes don't even get registered)
- When you die you get a screen similar to ME with a VERY similar ME tune in the backgroud

In any case let's go to pros and cons

Pros...
- Decent enough combat (no where near GoW levels and it's honestly an insult to put the two systems side by side)
- Some companions are actually quite interesting and have fun banter
- The world is truly beautiful, the environment and art team did an amazing job
- Customization of your character and companions is pretty nice, you have a transmog system and the hair are actually made good (even tho there lack of the more "rug" hair styles)

Now for the Cons
- The story, besides some decent parts it's pretty boring and poorly told
- Dialogue is abysmal, they cannot stop themselves from repeating what just happened for a dozen times over and it gets annoying
- There are two companions that are terrible, Taash, the Qunari is annoying. She is supposed to be a "Dragon hunter" yet she huffs and puffs like a child who is stuck in her own fantasy land and doesn't know who or what she is.
And then the Veil Jumper girl...Sera was annoying but there was a reason to it and you could learn to get warmed up to her and had her serious sides, this one? Ooof...She is just some Pixar/Disney princess tossed in for terrible comedy and cartoonish music
- The lack of any and all elements that made the Dragon Age games a Dragon Age game!
- The fact that they deleted all of the previous choices you made in previous games and only took 3 choices from Trespasser DLC
- The fact that now all of a sudden, if you're a warrior, you can punch the ground and slam into it to make a ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ fissure...like...what? Somehow Rook is the most powerful protagonist of ALL Dragon Age games
- The world has been butchered, suddenly the elves have all these super futuristic gauntlets and mechanizations for their ruins and its...it's more scifi fantasy than anything.

So with this I end.
If it didn't use the Dragon Age name it could've been a decent 6 out of 10 game, maybe even 7 out of 10, but seeing as they are using a beloved franchise and if you loved the previous games be it Origins, 2 or Inquisition this is easily a 2 out 10.
The writing is terrible, combat got downgraded and is just "I make big boom", there are new factions no one has ever heard of and said faction (Veil Jumpers) have some super futuristic gauntles and "relics" that help you do things you'd see in a Mass Effect Game.
This game is not worth 60 bucks, I'd suggest for anyone on the fence to wait until the prices drop, A LOT, because they spent "10 years" on this game and it's an even "worse" game than Dragon Age 2, which had its problems but at least it WAS Dragon Age
 

Haltenzus
0
86 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
61.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2024
This game is like the result of say if Disney had secretly acquired EA and decided to remake the Dragon Age franchise in their own cartoonishly bland and childish image. That sums up this game in a nutshell.

The old Bioware that made the original Dragon Age and Mass Effect Games is long dead. The original writers and developers are long gone. Bioware is Bioware in name only and a ghost of its former self.

The writing in this game is dreadful. The dialogue is boring and doesn't give you any real options to bond with the main character who is called "Rook" which is really the developers calling you "moron" because they assume you are a childish moron that needs everything explained to you in a child like fashion in order to comprehend their story. They even use the main companion characters to do a kindergarten like sit down story hour retelling to explain the already overly simplified story to you the "moron" or "rook" who is playing this game.

The companion characters are mostly unlikable, annoying, cartoonish, and bland, just like the main story. And the game gives you no choice to respond as you see fit as the main character/protagonist, unlike previous Bioware games, where choices did matter and you typically had at least two options to respond where you could be the typical badass hero or if you so choose be the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ bad guy. This game doesn't allow that.

The overall character design is like a Disney Pixar cartoon, are mostly ugly and unatractive and doesn't fit the original Dragon Age franchise. They are a far cry from the mostly lovable characters of the original Dragon Age series, some of which do play brief cameo appearances in this game, but not enough to make you fall in love with them allover again. The characters in this game are barely tolerable at best and childishly annoying at worst.

The world design is okay but not great and the levels are very much guided without any open world elements, unlike the previous Dragon Age game Inquisition where it felt more like an open world game, even when it wasn't one. This game feels like its mostly on rails and restricts itself and only unlocks certain areas as you progress through the story and level up, placing forcefield barriers between you and the areas of the map that are blocked off until you get to the story part that allows you to progress there. So the game destroys even the illusion of freedom of choice, both in character dialogue choices as well as restricting your travel until the story permits it.

About 10 hours into this game, the combat starts to feel repetitive. You have already encountered several bosses and the majority of bad guys you will fight in this game, and the game mechanics become a repetitive game of rock, paper scissors. Rinse and repeat.

The only interesting character in this game is Solas, and he spends the majority of the game locked in a virtual cell.

Is this a horrible game? No.

it's mostly cartoonishly bland. But it isn't anywhere near the same calibur as the previous Bioware games of old. So don't expect that. Keep your expectations low and you should be happy with this game, that is if you are completely unfamiliar with previous Bioware games. And don't hold your hopes out for Mass Effect 5. It will most likely be a total disaster just like this game was for me.
 

Aoleon
0
74 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
53.7 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
This game has no soul, barely anything tying it to the legacy of other games. It fixes the tedium of 3, but that is the only positive addition. BioWare has killed Dragon Age.

I'll finish the game because I spent 60$ bucks for it, but i'm doing more so out of obligation.
 

patrick.ryder
0
110 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
8.8 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
Other than some of the more stupid controversies that the game has managed to find itself in, there are three main reasons I do not recommend the game.

1. Lack of conflict. Everyone in the world has the same opinions about EVERYTHING.
If you played DA2, you likely remember having to break up arguments between the companions Fenris and Anders. Fenris, enslaved and tormented by mages in power for most of his life, was against mages and magic. While Anders, raised in a circle where he lived as a prisoner for simply being born with magic, was pro mages. They were two characters with different experiences and had their own thoughts on the world.

Now compare that to VeilGuard's Lucanis. With a name as badass as "Magekiller" you'd think there'd be some controversy between him and the mages in the party. Maybe there's a reason that he specializes in hunting mages specifically? Nope. It's not even discussed. He's fine with all mages and all the mages are fine with him, friendship at first sight even.
All the character are friends at first sight. In this very diverse cast of characters, no one has a single conflicting opinion. Not even the player.

2. The dialogue is godawful. Repetitive, stiff, and uninteresting. The voice actors did their best with the scraps they had to work with, but if I have to hear that the ancient elven gods were "tyrants" and "we're the only ones who can stop them" one more time, I'm gonna throw my pc. I got it the first 15 times thank you.

3. Missed opportunity. Dragon Age Inquisition broke its back setting up interesting plot lines that could be followed through in the next game. Only three of the options the player made in Inquisition even carried through. The Well of Sorrows is a huge example. Solas should have the power to control the Inquisitor or Morrigan, but that's never touched on, despite both being in the game. No previous questions are answered. Solas himself is a sidelined villain.


Other than story, I will admit that the graphics are the best we've seen from Bioware so far, and I am very happy to have long hair options without 1,000 mods. The gameplay is lackluster as usual for Bioware. I'd recommend Witcher 3 or BG3 if you want a plot-heavy game with good gameplay.
Overall this game should have been a stand alone, not attached to Dragon Age. It's a lackluster story, filled with missed opportunities, annoying one-note companions and lack of depth. You play a Bioware game for the story. And I can't recommended it especially for the price. Wait till it's on sale.

(PS: Did the Inquisitor's arm just grow back? I haven't seen anyone talk about this, but for a studio that prioritizes incivility, making a previously disabled character magically able-bodied seems pretty hypocritical.)
 

distressed.bee
0
166 people found this review helpful 5

Not Recommended
38.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Product received for free

Final edit after finishing the game:
CONS:
Combat is more action oriented but way too simple.
The story is slow to build up and sometimes very uninteresting.
The characters are boring although they do get much better towards the end. It simply takes too long for some to become likeable.
Artstyle is questionable, what the hell happened to the Qunari? They look ridiculous.
Dialogue is pretty bad, the writers treat the player like a toddler and try to explain even the simplest things.
The skill tree forces you to put points into abilities that you don't want in order to get to the ones you actually want.
The "tactical" UI was designed for console and it just looks so bad.
The Crossroads area is dull. I cannot force myself to give a damn about it. Instead of trying to make one big puzzle area just integrate those puzzles into the overall world and make it open world.
As an RPG, the worldbuilding in this game doesn't compare to the likes of BG3, Cyberpunk, Witcher etc.
Companions aren't actually companions, more like drones that are there for their abilities to trigger effects. They can't be damaged although mechanics like Taunt exist. They don't feel like actual companions ingame, very similar to Atreus in GoW.

PROS:
Story gets pretty good towards the end. The last 3 hours are so much better than anything else before that point.
Combat feels satisfying despite being very dumbed down. It feels good to combo abilities.
Graphics are pretty good.
Performance is extremely solid, running everything maxed out at 1440 without any issues. Experienced 1 crash in 8 hours but I hadn't updated my drivers yet.
Soundtrack was great.
The character creation screen was great, this game has the most realistic and amazing looking hair tech I've seen in a game.
No EA Launcher, the game is steam native. Thank you. EA App is garbage.

OVERALL:
I can't recommend this game at full price. I wasn't sure if I was even going to finish it. I powered through the first 10-15hours and it got much more interesting.
If you can get it for 25-30$ it's worth a purchase, however this game ranks even lower than Inquisition, probably only higher than DA2.
My final point is: if you're looking to a successor to DA:O, then play BG3 because this won't scratch that itch. This game has been Mass Effect'ed but not in the ME2 way, more like in a ME3 way. Could've been much better, not a bad game however not a great one either.
I give it a 7.5/10.
 

worldwide handsome
0
113 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
88.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
The game is running surprisingly smoothly for an EA title, and the graphics are gorgeous, just like the very elaborate character creator with so many gender-affirming options that I really had high hopes for the game itself.

It still looks pretty, it's still running smoothly after 10-11 hours, but this is
a) not a Dragon Age game, but a (very much well-done) action RPG set in the world of Thedas, and
b) the weakest writing I've ever seen in a video game of this caliber.

It's absolutely astonishing to see one bland dialog scene after the other. The voice acting is equally questionable, with downright stale performances that are mostly due to the lack of any sensical script. It's horrifying to watch such a steep decline on a game a lot of us have been waiting for almost 10 years. This is really, really not a good game.
 

Nuju
0
256 people found this review helpful 8

Not Recommended
6.4 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I wanted to love this so much. 10 years waiting. My favorite franchise. But this... is an insult, I take personally.

I wrote off the reviews, because I was going to play it anyway - I can look beyond the political stuff.

BUT... sometimes incomprehensible UI components... I'm frustrated to the point of quitting after 45 mins - and then CRASH! (on a high end PC).

That's without saying anything about how awful the writing is.
Its pretty and mostly runs super smooth, but its still a highly polished turd in my view.
This doesn't feel real.
Somebody tell me this is a joke.


EDIT: Further in, im bored but going through it anyway. All of a sudden the otherwise challenge-less game play went from braindead mode to hardcore mode and I cannot get past. This is the most frustrating experience I have had in a while.

EDIT: Decided to try rolling as a warrior, which at least was more fun. Dont roll mage or rouge. That said, at this point where im at the same point again, I realize that I just dont like the ARPG thing. I'm borderline motionsick. This is dumb.

EDIT: I guess, like some others have said, now that I am over 40, gaming must have left me behind. Here starts my retro gamer arc.
 

corymacd
2
305 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
168.3 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Rather disappointed by a number of design choices made by this team:

Action-based combat but it's rather simplistic and limited to only 3 abilities and an ultimate.
Party size is reduced to 2 members who barely do damage and are just there for additional abilities.
Art style ripped straight out of Sims 4, Pixar, Disney, etc.
Lack of meaningful choices to carry over from previous games, 2 of which are just about your relationship with Solas
Caters to newcomers while leaving franchise vets behind (i.e. over explaining lore)
Dialogue choices ultimately have the same outcome, just different flavor of delivery

Runs well on PC though
 

Gemini-Jack
2
131 people found this review helpful 6

Not Recommended
4.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
First impression of the game is that this is the Andromeda of the Dragon Age series. Veilguard is exactly what it purports to be in the trailers. If you saw the trailers and thought it looked good then maybe you'll like it. If you're like me and cringed at the strange Borderlands-esque character intro cards and styling then I've got bad news for you.

BioWare has taken different aesthetic approaches with each game and Inquisition seemed quite divisive at the time. Veilguard asks the question, "What if every character looked like hyper-stylized generic MOBA slop?" If you're optimistic about the full game being different tonally from the trailer you're unfortunately mistaken. Visually the game trades what could have been an interesting and unique style (ie, DA: Origins and DAII) for high fidelity graphics. It's a very pretty game to look atbut BioWare can't seem to nail down a decent anatomical structure. You can see the lack of cohesion when you're playing the game and see a Grey Warden next to a mage like Neve. The look and feel of DA:O is out of place and strange in the world of Veilguard.

So far the plot is fine if not a bit disappointing as they basically hand-wave away the first two games. The game falls apart with the dialogue. I never thought I'd hear a character in a Dragon Age game say, "well that just happened," like some sort of Disney Marvel banter. It doesn't help that they immediately introduce a character who makes Sera seem downright pleasant to chat with in retrospect.

One of my biggest issues with my playthrough of the game is Rook. I chose the Mourn Watch background and am not sure if it's the same with everyone but the amount of exposition is atrocious. Apparently my character led a rebellion and took down some high-ranking necromancers prior to meeting Varric. I know this because there was a paragraph explaining it at the character creation and because it's been referenced MULTIPLE times. This isn't like with other games where you grew up as a "street urchin" or "dalish" or something. From the sound of Rook was in a WAY better game before joining up with Varric! In the previous Dragon Age games you build your character up from relatively little but in this game it seems like my character got demoted or something. It's very poorly written and comes off as a desperate and cheap strategy to implore the player to think Rook is cool. I'm apparently an all-powerful Necromancer already so wtf am I even doing in a bar fight?

The gameplay is fine but there's definitely a lot more platforming and meandering than I would like. I could see people enjoying the combat but for me it's a bridge too far in the dumbing down of the series. The combat is lifted from Mass Effect and though I prefer those games to Dragon Age I feel the draw to Dragon Age has always been the more traditional RPG mechanics. I wasn't expecting a return to Origins-style CRPG gameplay but this game further reduces customization and is purely squad-based now. It's not the worst thing ever but your mileage may very depending on your taste.

I'm hoping the plot will pull me in soon and I can revise this review in a more positive light but as it stands I'm not a fan and it's a real shame. This game will definitely appeal more to fans of Inquisition. The Warden and Hawke aren't mentioned at all at character creation and only your choice of who, if anyone, in Inquisition you romanced is available to choose.
 

Effects of Silence
363 products in account
0
162 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Like it more than I thought I would but its not dragon age. It has the name and the IP but its not a return to form or anything like it. Its a god of war reboot wannabe but without the same charm and grit. On its own its a respectable game but wasn't worth the 60$ price tag. Game play is oversimplified and feels clunky with overemphasized attack and block windows. No matter what I did in the character creator my character stayed bug eyed and was extremely distracting in every cut scene that there are an obscene amount of. The game is constantly wrestling control from the player to make you look at something or to play another god forsaken cut scene with laughably bad writing a problem i thought mostly unique to JRPGs but our western friends seem to have taken a note from this book, but its not a book or a movie its a video game so i should, you know; interact with it not just watch it then mash x to make sure i stay awake for the story. The new companions all have the same marvel esque style about them and come across as ♥♥♥♥♥♥ dnd character inserts rather than fleshed out and engaging characters with unique backgrounds and personalities, and despite what others said they didn't grow on me they just grated against my sensibilities more as time went on. Only played past refund time to give it its fair shake and will give it a few more hours to see if maybe I played just shy of the good parts but I doubt it. If you want an OK game that's just like every other modern triple a game on the market, go for it.
 

BEF
0
117 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Product received for free

Ultra Performance FSR as the default option shouldn't be Deck VERIFIED
 

Santiago Santiago
830 products in account
0
154 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
I guess it's a good RPG if your mental age is somewhere between 14 and 19. Because every character here speaks fluent Wheadonspeak and like to state the obvious things with great pathos.

The writing room is assuming you are as dumb as the writers and everything is presented in a familiar 'fantasy slop' style that is so prevalent on Amazon or Netflix. It's a kids story made for kids and written for pre-teens. Writing is pure cringe with random jokes thrown around like it is some sort of a Marvel move, Andraste save us.

Don't even think about this abomination as some sort of Dragon Age sequel either. You have only 4 choices that are carried over from the previous games and all of them are from DAI. Characters visuals are all over the place and we've got another round of useless redesigns of legacy stuff like darkspawn.

Gameplay? Yeah, it's just tedious slop too, just with ARPG flavour. Now with red barrels and magical turrets and without proper party management. Yeah, it's Dragon Age alright.

I'm not even mad, I'm just dissapointed. Especially since even Solas here is nothing more than a cheap bait that's is quickly resolved in the Prologue and thrown away because reasons.

I do hope that Mass Effect is in the safer hands.
 

shaikhulud
652 products in account
0
87 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
108.1 hrs on record
Posted: 12 December, 2024
I would love to give this game an amazing review.... The only issue is that it is not a great game... I finished it and was disappointed almost every step of the way... Every dragon fight was the same with different skins... and the quest were all the same... all the areas felt like one building... hallways and some rooms was all you got... I have played every game and this one has been the one that has made me the most sad. I do not leave reviews lightly... Please do not let this be your first dragon age game... If anything DAI is o sale for $6 right now.... start with that if you don't want to play an amazing game for 15+ years ago. I would recommend either the original DA or go play the mass effect trilogy...
 

Foxiss
2
259 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
5.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Very surprising to see this game is sitting at 'mostly positive' at the time of this review

- incredibly poor writing. Im now 5 hours in and it just gets worse. there is no nuance and everything is so blunt that even a 4 year old wouldn't miss what the characters are trying to say. Its crazy to see how far Bioware has fallen in this regard.
- Great world and art design but the character design is a bit off what you might expect.
-combat is very different from the original but maybe that's okay, this does feel like a solid system.

Overall, its clear this game is not made for those that loved the original Dragon Age. This feels like they're trying to make games for children now. Writing for children and character models that could easily be sold as plastic toys.
 

WillPwn4Food
7
83 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
26.5 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
I bought this game because it was a Dragon Age game and this is a bad Dragon Age game. I have never said this before and I hope I never say it again, this game was clearly led by a marketing department and not game developers.

The characters are staggeringly cliche. All character development, moral grey areas, and meaningfull writing is no where to be found. This game is the unseasoned boiled chicken of the gaming world.
 

fineous4
0
120 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
8.0 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Ignoring the politics around it, the gameplay is fun but the story and dialogue is trash, and everyone looks like they applied botox on themselves
 

Hopadamaron
122 products in account
0
191 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
31.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
This is not a “Return to Form” for BioWare. I’m going to play it out, because It’s a beloved franchise to me… but if you’re on the fence, save your money. The writing is the worst I’ve seen in any story driven game.
 

jojipeach703
0
66 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
78.5 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
TL;DR: DAV has moments that shine, but ultimately feels like a disappointing addition to the Dragon Age series. Maybe worth a try on sale, but don’t expect it to live up to its predecessors.

Dragon Age has been my comfort franchise and obsession for over a decade, with Dragon Age 2 holding a particularly special place in my heart. I didn’t expect DAV to be a masterpiece, but I was still excited to play it.

As a standalone story about saving the world through the power of friendship in a Marvel-esque style, it could have worked. Nothing groundbreaking, but enjoyable enough when you're looking for something casual. The environments are actually beautiful, and I even got used to the new design direction to the point I started to like it (especially compared to the disappointing marketing materials). The game works on release day (which I know is the bare minimum), and you can pet cats, dogs, and Assan (and play with Manfred, I love my skelly son). There were definitely good moments in the story that made me cry, yell, or giggle, but unfortunately, there just weren’t enough of them to overshadow the flaws.

The first 20 hours were fun—somewhat clunky, but I kept playing, thinking it might just be a rough start. However, the longer I played, the more frustrated I became with almost every aspect of the game:

> The character creator is quite hard to navigate, though, to be fair, we finally got some cute long hairstyles and body shape options.
> Puzzles felt like time-wasters, and the companions felt like shallow, copy-paste personalities with no nuance or conflict (romances were definitely lacking content).
> There was an unnecessary amount of chests, statues (sorry, Hinterlands—you weren’t that bad in hindsight), and other collectibles that felt like a chore more than an adventure.
> Quests and plotlines were uninteresting and forgettable, though occasionally, a quest would capture the eerie, intense atmosphere reminiscent of DAO or DA2, which was refreshing.
> The dialogue was filled with cringe-worthy, toxic positivity (Rook sounded like a therapist at times).
> Voice acting often felt emotionless or didn’t fit the situation.
> There were no real moral dilemmas or impactful decisions (there’s maybe one near the end, but by then, I was so detached from the companions that it felt cosmetic).
> Some level designs were repetitive in a way that reminded me of DA2’s reused maps, but this time content was barricaded by frustratng invisible (or visible) walls.
> Music was underwhelming, often using unnecessary synth notes that clashed with the fantasy setting instead of enhancing it.
> The lore that makes Dragon Age so rich felt ignored or cut off entirely, with references feeling thin and disconnected from the heart of the series.

Honestly, it felt like I was witnessing a butchering. Or maybe I was put through the Harrowing myself. I need some time to mentally recover from this.

I’d give it a 5/10 at most. Buy it on sale.
 

Jow
73 products in account
1
102 people found this review helpful 6

Not Recommended
70.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 November, 2024
Whenever a new Dragon Age game comes out, there’s always debate on whether it really feels like a Dragon Age game or not. But Dragon Age: The Veilguard feels like a departure not only from Dragon Age but even from BioWare itself. The game feels underdeveloped and, frankly, dull. I loved Dragon Age for its political intrigue, socio-economic discussions on racism and discrimination, and the weight of meaningful choices. This game, however, plays it safe, even gentle. You wouldn’t even realize elves are disliked in this world if characters didn’t casually mention it. Choices feel inconsequential because the tone is overly polite, and the political depth that made the world so compelling is missing. It feels like EA is trying to draw in a new audience, though no one plays Dragon Age except for the Dragon Age fans themselves.

There are a few positives. The gameplay is enjoyable, and it's clear they aimed to make it appealing to a broader gaming community. Graphics are decent—not exceptional—but the customization options are impressive. Honestly, at this point, maybe BioWare should focus on fashion-centric games if profit is EA’s main priority.

Spoilers Ahead

The core conflict had incredible potential. The scale, political tension, and the story of an oppressed group descended from those who unleashed the Blight could have reconnected us to Dragon Age’s medieval dark fantasy roots. But the game pushes politics to the background. The main quest feels abruptly shortened, steering players toward companion quests that lack engagement. Side plots are basic and uninspired. The world feels small and empty, and it’s frustrating to wait to finish one side quest before unlocking companion quests, especially when the map is so limited. On top of that, DLCs for cosmetic items feel overpriced and add to the sense of a shallow experience. (Yes, I’m still salty about the $20 for ugly skins and mediocrity on my plate.) Even the Qunari design disappointed; they resemble Tieflings more than formidable Qun warriors.

The character designs, including their outfits, are genuinely well done. But the writing? Abysmal, along with the dialogue, which is often cringe-worthy. None of the characters felt compelling. Many had real potential, but it was squandered. Lucanis, for example, is supposedly recovering from years of imprisonment, torture, and betrayal by a cousin he considered a brother. Yet, his trauma seems barely acknowledged. Bellara’s brother? I can’t even care; he’s barely mentioned in one monologue cutscene, and their interactions are superficial. Though, maybe it’s because of the terrible facial expressions of the character, I’m not sure. Neve is likable, but there isn’t enough backstory to make her truly resonate—I don't know her, and the fact she's mad at me for choosing to save an undefended city instead of a mage-infested, shadow dragon-protected, army-having city is just... what. Taash’s story is dull and feels tacked on, unrelated to the main plot. The conflict between parents and children might have been effective if there was more to them than the bare minimum of detail about their mother; surely, it wouldn’t be hard to add more meat than bare bones with nothing to chew on. I hated their modern-esque dialogues; whoever wrote that needs to be quartered. Emmrich wasn’t even a missed opportunity—his plot is just irrelevant, though I enjoyed Manfred’s character. Davrin’s story was the only one that felt connected and engaging; I appreciated getting a glimpse into his past and family (and yes, I’m biased because I love Assan).

Overall, Dragon Age: The Veilguard was just… meh.
 

terrimoron
0
76 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
7.7 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
Overall the game fails at being a dragon age game or even just a RPG game.

For it being just a normal RPG, the only role you can play in this game is an uninformed stand in with how the game feels the need to repeat any story point no matter how small or big a half dozen times to make sure you understand. As a consequence to a choice you make in the introductory scene a companion got injured. In the subsequent cutscenes we see them injured and can have a discussion with them about it and how they feel about it and moving forward etc. All this is good and should be complete yet in the next 4 or 5 scenes we're still bringing up the issue of the injury in each scene. We've already established the plan moving forward, the world, as we're told, is ending and we're wasting time rehashing the same conversation a half dozen times. This trend continues for nearly all story points or their consequences i've encountered. Concepts not unique to Dragon age universe are being explained to the player as if we're idiots. In D'Metas Crossing we sail/row to the town, at this point we've been told its been attacked/havent heard from them, as you enter an empty dock, your companion needs to first tell you what a dock is, secondly that its empty despite us being able to see it, and thirdly that it shouldnt be this way/something is wrong which is already easily inferred and something we were already told with them not having heard from the town. The writing for the dialogues combined with their "complex puzzles" of bring crystal from A to B to open door or destroy crystals in a certain order theres a constant feeling of being treated either like a child or a complete idiot with no retention.

For a dragon age game its a complete failure as from what i've experienced so far theres a lack of respect or disregard for established lore. Most of these variances are explained away with the magic of the world changing since the ritual Solas created/casted was interrupted. 

Based on the number of companions i've yet to meet, means im not too far into the story yet the above is enough for me to tell its not a faithful sequel to the dragon age games and the fact that there are no major choices from the prior games that carry over, just a few choices for Inquistion tells me the writers had no intention of staying faithful or consistent with the earlier games. Probably viewing the earlier games as too extreme despite this being a dark fantasy IP. The first choice I got to make summarizes it well. 
 

Inadequacy
1
18 people found this review helpful 8

Not Recommended
89.3 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Dragon Age: Veilguard isn’t just a game, it’s an exercise in managing shattered expectations — especially if you’re a fan of the series. Did you enjoy the sweeping epic of Origins or the emotional depth of Inquisition? Well, forget about it. Here, all the iconic elements of Dragon Age have been left behind in favor of experiments no one really asked for.

The story feels more like a low-effort fanfiction than a continuation of Thedas’ grand lore. Instead of grand-scale drama, you’re stuck with minor conflicts, and even the NPCs look bored with their own lives. This isn’t the epic quest you might expect but more like a DLC that accidentally grew into a standalone title.

Mechanics-wise, it’s another disappointment. Where earlier games allowed us to strategize and revel in tactical combat, Veilguard dumbs everything down to clunky chaos. The combat camera fights you harder than the enemies, whose AI ranges from "asleep" to "headless chicken". Even the progression system feels like a regression, stripping away the joy of meaningful builds and growth.

And then there’s the visuals. Thedas was once a world of breathtaking artistry, but now it looks like it’s been handed to interns working with outdated tech. The graphical fidelity is stuck in the early 2010s, with more attention given to the texture of grass than to character expressions.

In short, Veilguard is a game for those unfamiliar with what Dragon Age once stood for. If you’re a longtime fan, you’ll find little here but disappointment and the lingering question: why does this even carry the Dragon Age name?
 

kunericlock
1,126 products in account
2
1,795 people found this review helpful
50 people found this review funny 53

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Optimized exactly how I would expect an EA title to be optimized - crashes when opening that require me to restart my PC. Crashes on title screen. Crashes on setting screen.

Edit: After approximately 50 crashes over 24 hours with 30% of those requiring me to force restart my PC, I can safely say that my favorite ending of the game is the Refund ending.
 

ProspectorJim
0
129 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Unable now to request a refund, so I will warn others so hopefully they do not make the same mistake.

I was psyched for this game but it is really flat, Starfield all over again. I may be biased because DA: Origins was one of my favourite games and this strips all the aspects that I loved from the game, class doesn't matter, no more building teammates, no more controlling teammates, no more world exploration, flat characters and disappointing story so far, and the character basically says/does the same thing regardless of choices selected. It feels like playing those telltale games which some people are into but not what I was expecting.

This is really too bad, I want to love this game but it is definitely not worth buying anywhere near full price. Save your money for when it drops by 80%. The DLC gear is also just cosmetic so don't worry if you missed out on it there are no stats to armour, literally every armour afterwards looks better. God I'm so disappointed...
 

Kapow
0
60 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
103.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
Basically a superhero movie called Dragon Age.

It's okay if you are willing to trade good game play for lazy plots and cheesy one-liners (and weirdly superhero-y costume designs, soundtrack, and hero-villain dynamics). But whether you are or not, know it's very short either way. This would be a thumbs up if it had just had the same amount of content as previous Dragon Age games.

I finished it on Nightmare in 100 hours, and that's only from slowly whittling away at the health of enemies I didn't know were levels above me, instead of knowing I could just wait to level up and come back to them and beat them more quickly. On the easiest setting, you could probably beat the game in... two days?

And after that, you get no post-story game play. No endgame rewards.

Oh, and most of your choices don't actually matter. They're just there for decoration.
 

FOO
49 products in account
0
30 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
75.3 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March
The game play wasn't interesting.
The story was bland.
The writing was awful.

I finished this game. I finished it hoping at some point it would get better. It did not.

I did this because I was a Dragon Age fan. I'm done with this series.
 

Wykydtron
0
3,195 people found this review helpful
71 people found this review funny 117

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Edit #3
I'm unsure if it was patch 1, or 2 (Since I hadn't tried to start the game during Patch 1's period) but the game has now let me get to the character creation stage. Once I get a chance to play it properly I'll come back to review. Good job on the patches, thank you.

I miss the days when you could buy a CD version of a game and you'd install it and see it work straight away. 40 minutes of watching it crash before it can even compile shaders is woeful. Installed, uninstalled, Verified files, change capability. Top of the range hardware. Baffling.

Holding the big fat no until it works.

*edit
Almost an hours worth of troubleshooting done now, still no dice.
with the 68 crash reports, all point to: "the thread tried to read from or write to a virtual address for which it does not have the appropriate access."

Which is a memory problem. Guarantee, that is not a client side issue. (this time).

*edit #2
I've managed to get to 103 shaders compiled, and it crashes. Some times it crashes before opening, sometimes it crashes when the loading symbol appears, and very rarely do I get to the "Compiling Shaders" part.

If you're adding me just to insult me because of my "opinion," on the game, because you assumed I'm politically charged, you assumed wrong. I don't even have an opinion on the game yet, because I can't even get the bloody thing to work. I just want to play the damn game.
 

Zentisca
570 products in account
0
42 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
28.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
Game for ill 12 year olds
 

Putrefy
426 products in account
0
50 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 14 December, 2024
Play Dragon Age Inquisition instead.
 

OswalD
766 products in account
0
110 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
31.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
I'm a big enough fan of the series that I'm gonna finish this game, but man. All the criticism of bad writing is true. The dialogue with rare exceptions is just insipid positive affirmations with no feeling behind it. I feel bad for the voice actors.

Edit much later: Yeah, as I uninstall this game to make room for other stuff, I have to confess I couldn't push through and finish it. 30 hours and I can say there were only two bright spots amid a sea of terrible. Emmerich is a really well written and well performed character, which is surprising because the fancy posh man is not usually my choice of bros in a game, but they just did a good job with him. And Solas was pretty good in limited screen time. The rest was trash. Just a messy splattering fart of a videogame.
 

Ladnil
0
40 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
26.6 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
Looks pretty good.
Combat "meh", lots of rolling and dodging. I played as a mage, and probably my own fault for that, but made combat seem overly annoying.
Did you know on keyboard, F is jump? Took me a few hours to figure it out, no basic tutorial, i though space bar was the thing to do stuff, but no F is jump
If you don't fully explore a companions sexuality, she dies in the story finale, weird flex story narration
Why does it seem EVERYONE is smiling? Are we happy because the world is ending, or does Thedas really have that dank going around?

Just didn't really feel like a Dragon Age game, there are dragons in game but did not really feel like the theme was there.
 

DerpMcStuffn
0
64 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
61.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 December, 2024
It’s very shallow of people to write off a piece of media negatively for being ‘woke’ when the problem with this game doesn’t even lay there. With that being said and as someone who originally liked this series i cannot recommend this game, especially to fans of the previous titles.

The writing is genuinely unbearable. A gripe i have is that there is way too much telling and not showing, it is lazy writing. The companions actions do not align with what they have said, there are no scenes that prove anything that the characters have stated. Some of the scenes are so stiff and lifeless and somehow feels like a downgrade from the other games. The voice acting is on another level of flatness or unironic cringy quirkiness. The only real affiliation with the previous games is solas, in which you are only really playing this game for his story. Though it fails to interest me, the lore drops are nice as it has been years since the previous titles. All the buildup throughout the game is then eventually let down by the climax and ending of the story. They try to use blood magic as an excuse for anything and the ‘villains’ of this story are laughably evil, there is no depth to them whatsoever.

The writing is utterly incompetent, they put more effort shoehorning the word non-binary into the script than they did actually writing the characters. It is completely jarring to hear modern terminology in a game like this. It’s very disappointing to see such a horrible misinterpretation of a trans person, it is borderline insulting. This is not the kind of representation that anyone wants to see. Dragon age inquisition did a much better job at representing queer people than this game ever did. The way this game deals with its queer characters is the opposite of inclusive, they have intentionally highlighted the queer experience in this game that has only lead to more negative attention being directed at queer people.
 

dollmoth
152 products in account
0
68 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
82.5 hrs on record
Posted: 8 November, 2024
Outside of a few key moments and its impressive character creator, a thoroughly mediocre experience that cosplays as a Dragon Age game.
 

PcGameHunter
206 products in account
0
38 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
90.2 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
Probably the worst Bioware game in terms of writing and the dialogue.
 

dgomez
128 products in account
2
119 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
70.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
This would be much better if it were not a Dragon Age game.

The game is too linear with no exploration. Feels like you're on rails from one cut scene to the next (way too many cut scenes) and feels even more restrictive than the original Mass Effect games. Even the puzzles were lackluster, and it feels like there was no effort put into the actual game. Its almost like the devs wanted to make an animated movie and threw in the occasional gameplay. It doesn't seem like the choices you make matter outside of dialogue, which makes it very clear why they didn't port over game state from the previous games. The art style is not as bad as I thought it would be, and the world looks great at times, but the character creator was garbage. If you don't like the options that everyone was upset about they're easily ignored, however there is no shape to the female rook and no option to fix that. Rook's features come out as way too angular no matter how long you play with it. The combat is just mediocre. It is much more deliberate like they tried to take inspiration from a Dark Souls game, and then they added overdone JRPG skill like calling down swords from the sky. Even the Darkspawn lost their appearance from the previous games and look like anime villains with glowing eyes and foot long claws that run at you like the zombies out of World War Z.

Bioware definitely has strayed from being the studio they used to be and this feels like a significant deviation from the other games in the series.
 

Cepsis
220 products in account
0
154 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 12

Not Recommended
79.8 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
update after beating the game once (almost all quests in total of 50h on easiest difficulty) - i stand by everything i wrote after 10h. i have never cringed so much in my life before. nothing saves this game. the romance is indeed "like never before" - it's just non-existing :D playing as mage is much more fun than a rouge, as always since DAO.

so i waited a decade for this game. loved DAO, loved/hated DA2, loved DAI, i also loved Horion Zero Dawn, but i'm not loving forbidden west. I'm a fanatic of Witcher 1&3 games and I bow before BG3 - thats to give you a baseline of my preference, so you know if this review is for you or not. I'm also autistic and NB, if that helps.

The only plus of DAV (after 12h) is... it exists? It's dumbed down. The dialogues and NPC/companion interactions are so shallow it's just cringey. Like, horribly cringey. There is absolutely no atmosphere of NOTHING, it feels like an arcade game with horrible flirting options. Now, if it was an arcade game - why not, love me more Raymond's. But it is a culmination to a mindblowing franchise and now i wished it was never released.

some pluses (+):
+ you can pet cats and dogs (- for one dog cloned all around. it seems Antiva is big on pitbulls)

some minuses (-):
- voice acting - mostly horrible, characteristic for arcade games. everything is performed on the same note.
- dialogues and dialogue options - literally no range of response. you cant even decline a quest.
- animations of looting - sparkly, ringing, overall horrible sensory experience.
- equipment - for companions it's close to DA2 - you can only companion specific items. so far i havent found any crafting tables.
- skill tree - similar to Horizon Foridden West - unnecessarily big, im on lvl 12 now.
- fights are colorful, chaotic, painful, if you prefer a more strategic approach (boy, do i miss DAO)
- music - meh; i was worried Hans Zimmer (one of my movie score favs) will make the game sound mainstream - yup. its the first 'meh' intro track.
- specific interactions - gift giving - omg, its just so bad :D i just gave a gift to one of companions and there was a cutscene for auntie like "for me??" and then it ended. no dialogue, no feedback, NOTHING.
- quests are starting with you getting to a point on map, clicking on sparkly mist "start quest"; then you have a "start quest" window when you agree and only then you continue with the quest you can't back down from, i think.
- party management - you can't always choose your party composition, some members are 'mandatory' eve though their skills or powers you can replicate in other scenarios with 'magic'
- LIP SYNC is worse than 15years ago. Movement animations are just plastic.
- Morrigan got lip fillers and an intern doing her eyebrows - girl got bushy.

at this point I pray there are no s*x scenes, could it will force me into dissacociative episode - imagine watching cow&chicken on cartoon network and seeing full frontal of the parents. pls no. and i have never said no to s*x om games before.
- sound glitches in some areas, making it unbearable to listen. restarting game doesnt help, probably needs a patch.

summary - buy, if you want something to play after work/school. but buy on sale. or play on friends console. i's a very shallow & simplified game. that being said, even tho it has some affirmations for NB/trans folk, it is just.... a bit insulting.

if you like the games, need exceptional writing and storytelling - right now the Witcher 3 and BG3 are top. and of course older DAO, played in order, mixed with books written by Gaider.
 

naresca
0
103 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
61.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
Sadly, I can't recommend the game. I've been a big Dragon Age fan for many, many years and I fell in love with Origins back in 2013.

I can't even put together what I'm feeling about this game. It doesn't feel like Dragon Age or the universe of dragon age - it feels more like a Fortnite game made in the Dragon Age universe (letting aside all the bugs and crashes it always has).

The story feels unrealistic and not serious at all. The characters are all boring and have a specific theme that you can already tell from their boring backstory. Don't even let me get into the romance that is so much worse than the other games. The writing is cringe and seems unnatural and childish.

The graphics are not my style at all and really sad when you look back at the other Dragon Age games and their dark backgrounds. It just doesn't fit there at all. And can you please tell me what they did with my man Dorian?? He looks not like himself and really awful, guess being a magister has his bad sides after all.

I will prob finish the game and put through the boring companion quests since the lore is still interesting and I want to see Solas being happy with my inqi, but I really can't recommend this game - better play Origins or even Inquisition!!
 

Kimchi
1
116 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Dragon Age have always suffered from a lack of consistency between installments in the series. DA2 was not a continuation o DAO, and DAI was not a continuation of DA2. At this point, it is more so an anthology of vaguely connected stories with very different genres and mechanics. I only played for about an hour and a half, so I can not speak on the overall story.

However, I can talk about the writing in dialogues, which was atrocious. There is a lot of talking without saying anything or reaching a point (other than chasing line numbers?), and hand-holding. The visual style is my biggest gripe - the characters look cartoonish, the environments like low-budget sci-fi animations, and the combat like a rave.

What I did like was character creator, where I saw a lot of improvements, and that one scene just before the opening credits when . But that's not enough to make me force myself to endure the boredom further.

In short, this feels like playing a fairytale retelling for children, rather than the adult fantasy game that DAO, ergo the best received game of the series, was.
 

lollkoo2
0
57 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 November, 2024
Product refunded

Okay, quick summary.

Positives:

Looks pretty, although not typical DA themed.

Now the negatives:

Script writing is awful, I mean, even fan fiction is better than this rubbish. Every other line is cringeworthy
Characters - Not relateable at all, or likeable. Voice acting is sub par, but to be fair, the voice actors had a terrible script to work with
Games Mechanics - Boring. No other word for it. Dont have to think about it at all, just press X *4, LB to block. Rinse and repeat. Quests and story are dull as dishwater.
General Gameplay - Well, I like RPG's to have open worlds where decisions you make matter, for ill or gain. THAT is what roleplaying is about. There is none of that here, your decisions do not matter. Cannot make morally ambiguous choices so every playthrough will essential be exactly the same. The railroading...well....I have seen less rail road on a locomotive it is that linear!

And then there is the "other" stuff that I wont mention as that actually overshadows what a terrible and boring game this actually is.

Refunded.
 

Goosefeather
204 products in account
0
62 people found this review helpful 7

Not Recommended
113.8 hrs on record
Posted: 29 November, 2024
A broken-hearted letter of non-recommendation from a long-time fan
I wanted so much to love this game. Alas, I really do not.

Right from the start, I overlooked the many red flags
The worst of which being the knowledge that no previous choices would be imported into this game other than 3 choices relative to Trespasser. Let us not forget the name change, the art style, the abominable first trailer, the massive emphasis from the marketing team that these were "the best characters ever!".
Many things that just screamed that this game was going to be handled poorly. I overlooked it all because I love Dragon Age. and after 10 long years of waiting, I needed to give this the biggest chance I could.

And yet.... what we got validated all of my fears.
It shouldn't be a cardinal sin to want a game to stick to what people liked the franchise for.
DA's fanbase is (or was) built on a pure love of storytelling, intrigue, morally complex characters, and gray world-building where human nature is on full display (i.e., different concepts of right and wrong depending on cultures and motives).

What we got in DAV is a washed-out version of a world where nothing is gray—it’s all black and white. Take away the content and leave only a husk, and the original fans will part in disgust, which you can see happening by reading these Steam reviews. Lifetime fans are refusing to recommend this game, myself included.
It just hurts to see something that was so brilliant be destroyed for all the wrong reasons—and being told that we are the issue for not loving a hardly disguised imposter of a DA game.

Pros

- The game runs well
- It is beautiful in its design from an aesthetic point of view (the environment, not the characters).
- Comabt is smooth and fun if you like action combat (which I do) but it is very simplified. I found myself forced for the first time of my life to downgrade the difficulty level just to get through mob fights faster in act II so that I could finally get on with the story.
- The photos you can take in this game are beautiful.

That is it.


Cons

- Above all else, the writing and execution of it in all its forms.
Dialogue uses very detached modern language compared to previous games that tried not to use words from after the 1900s (apart from Alistair). Dialogue between companions is very bleak and childish. Dialogue toward NPCs is equally childish. The tone of the writing is out of place, no sense of urgency when facing world-ending situations. I could go on, but you get the idea.

- The universe and story went from rich, deep, intriguing with questionable practices open for debate to.... stale.
Black and white. Good or bad. You are a hero and your choices are those of a hero; you are not just any hero, you are a very soft, silly hero. This coming from someone who always plays a slightly goody-two-shoes character in my DA games because I don't like upsetting companions. Boy, how I wished I could upset companions in this game though. That choice is sadly taken from you here, you are molded into what the game needs you to be and that is that.

- Characters and Factions are wiped clean.
The crows (whom you understand are a very serious threat just from meeting one in Josephine's personal quest in DAI) are now a kind family who take in orphans to save them, not to turn them into groomed and honed weapons to be wielded at command. The Grey Wardens are no longer represented as the brute shield of Thedas made up of questionable people from many different backgrounds; they are represented by a very soft elf and grumpy dwarf, probably for diversity's sake to once again prove that anybody can be anything. The Lords of Fortune are no longer mercenary pirates that steal and plunder under contracts for their wealth, they now do it "the right way," the "respectable way" and send any cultural items back to their countries to avoid cultural appropriation.
These things wouldn't be an issue at all in a safer game franchise where these points weren't directly tied to factions' identities. By erasing these factions' previous identities for the sake of playing it safe on modern social questions, you are left with the husk of a once complex game where morality was allowed to be questioned and theorized about.

- Maps and design.
You can really, really tell that this game is made on the bones of a once-scrapped multiplayer game.
The maps in Origins were handcrafted and small (it was 20 years ago) but not built too much on top of themselves. In DAI, the open world offered large expanses of terrain to explore. Some would say they were too empty and that is a fair point, but as a lover of open-world games, I really enjoyed the maps. Veilguard though.... I hated them.
Built into levels, crushed on top of one another, with so many silly bridges and zip-lines and blocked-off magical doors for the sake of forcing you to come back and re-use the maps again and again (recycling, if you will). I hated them.
I felt like I was a mouse in a trap being herded around the route that was planned for me, no straying, no exploring. No, I had to keep moving and climbing up paths and bridges that were oh so conveniently laid out for me because that is the route the game had chosen for me.

- Ennemies & villains.
They are reduced to one simple factor: a need for power and to be idiotically evil. Also
ennemies are reduced to only two groupes: Venatori and Antam. That is all.

- Choices, companions, and RP'ing
I convinced many friends to play DA games over the years by telling them Dragon Age offers games where your choices mean something. The characters you meet mean something to YOU. You can love them, hate them, disagree with them, or adore them. They are all unique and well-written even when they are written to be disliked by the masses. But they all tied into the story properly.
The companions of Veilguard? I did not hate them, I did not love them. I simply did not care about them at all.
You cannot talk to them or get to know them at your own pace. The information they share with you is forced upon you in cutscenes and that is that. Oh, they all socialize with each other! But when you walk up to them, they just stare at you as though you are the odd one out.

Your relationship with them is that of a poorly taught therapist and/or a weak pushover boss at best, none of the relationships are given the time or means to be made genuinely, and I will not even broach the subject of the romances which are very, very lacking.
The only character holding up this game is Solas, in my opinion, and Christ, even he was not spared from the broken writing concerning his personality, his morals, and his duty.
For an illustrative example here:
In DAI during my 1st playthrough, I 100% overlooked Solas, his physique did not appeal to me and he did not seem interesting. I got through probably 50% of the game before really taking the time to talk to him, and boy did it change everything. I genuinely grew to ADORE him more and more as my Inquisitor took the time to be interested in him. It was a choice I made, and that made it even more amazing, because Bioware allowed me TO choose. Had I never decided to talk to him, the reveal at the end would have had a very different impact. Again, depending on the choices you are allowed to make, your playthroughs will be different.
In Veilguard, everybody had the very same, very similar linear experience and that is that.
Why would anyone replay this game?

This is long, and negative, and I am sorry to drown you in my disappointment but at least now it is said.
I bought the concept art book, and I mourn what the original project was to be, pushed by a team fresh out of Inquisition that held all the right motives and passion in their hands.

So no, after almost 90 hours in Veilguard, I do not recommend this game.
 

Teatimelois
0
81 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 12

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 30 December, 2024
Player agency is non existent, I don't feel like I've had a sliver of an opportunity to RP, or develop my character at all. I have no idea who this man is, nor do do I feel like I'm genuinely apart of the world, a feeling elevated by the fact that the characters all blur together into a singular lifeless, banal entity. Everything feels like a set, frequently you're plopped into scenes at an arbitrary pace with no chance to explore. There has genuinely never been another game in the series that has felt so completely off rails and adverse in allowing the player to actually interact with it. And the dialogue. Oh the Maker! Not even just the player's, which is abysmal, but the dialogue holistically is written so astonishingly atrociously that it boggles the mind. Characters incessantly repeat themselves in a carousel of repetition, like you're too addled to have heard them the first time. Here is an example of what I mean (paraphrased but the gist is there):

Character A: We’re searching for the Nadas Dirthalan! It’s an archive spirit.
Character B: Nadas Dirthalan?
Character A: Yes! It’s a spirit that can tell us all about the ancient elves history!

A few minutes later

Character A: We’re close to the Archive Spirit! I have so many questions to ask it.

Another few minutes later, we encounter the anticipated Spirit, it disappears.

Character B: Well it’s broken like all the other artifacts here.
Character A: it’s not just any artifact! It’s the Nadas Dirthalan! The Archive Spirit! I have so many questions to ask it!

*fade to black, teleported to a new location*

Character A: blah blah something something Nadas Dirthalan.
Character C: Wait! You met the Nadas Dirthalan? The Archive Spirit? We could ask it about the ancient Elven Gods!

If they aren't repeating exposition or objectives at you, they're using the most corny and predictable filler dialogue. How many times have you heard "It's quiet here... TOO QUIET." repetitively voiced by NPC's throughout various games, because that exact phrase also exists in Veilguard. I wouldn't be overly astonished to hear a "He's standing right behind me isn't he" or a bland "Well that just happened." Yet this is what we're left with when EA decides to fire their best writers for the series and publicly execute anyone with a shred of ingenuity in this loathsome, wretched, bog ridden company.

I am an hour in and I remain unable to concoct anything worthwhile about these characters beyond vague, lacklustre and vapid one or two word descriptions. I could list a fact or two about each character, but these facts are devoid of any substance and personality. Everything feels contrived, as though it was churned out of a box ticking vat and designed solely to adhere to a corporate quota, as opposed to being written by genuine zest brimming impassioned developers. The only character with a shred of personality is wholly due to the talent of the voice actress portraying her, whose voice acting is commendable and worthy of a Grammy award when placed in juxtaposition to the urine streaked script.

And that is omitting the rampant political pandering, that is plucked from the writers innermost, zealous gripes with society and used to batter and maul the player into agony stricken capitulation with. I remain bewildered as to why the lead writers to Dragon Age Veilguard would feel compelled to impose modern day ideologies and terminology into a fantasy setting, rife with eldritch machinations of cataclysmic and calamitous woe. An immediate example, that I can recall derives from an obligatory cutscene featuring a dinner betwixt the Qunari companion Taash, her mother and yourself. During this dinner scene, Taash immediately informs her mother that she is a non binary transgender, and at her mother desire in attempting to rationalise her daughter's perceived identity, Taash lashes out and lambasts her mother for not stringently kowtowing to her arguably ludicrous approach to the conversation. Later on in the story, another cutscene, occurring under coercion, emerges where a bronze pigmented swashbuckler named Isabela, publicly flagellates herself afore the party and performs a number of pushups, whilst all in attendance indifferently observe. This self flagellating ritual of humiliation is prompted because Isabela erroneously refers to Taash as a female, which she is. Naturally, these two scenarios featured above are inherently ridiculous and detract from any semblance of credibility in the story for two reasons.

Firstly, these cutscenes, which to reiterate are not voluntary, where pronouns are bandied and pushups of ignominy occur, are conducted in a setting where the entire land is riven by war, hamlets are set ablaze, lowly peons are dragged away into decrepit burrows to be sacrificed and the nobles enter insidious, clandestine covenants with apparitions of dusk. It is bewildering to contemplate, even momentarily, that pronouns would be acknowledged, let alone be a central plot point in a companions story, whilst the very whims of fire and war ravage the countryside.

Secondly, the identical modern day terminology, proclaimed by Slaneesh enthralled vermin in the modern day, is used in the exact same framework for this fantasy setting. Vernacular such as 'non binary' and 'pronouns' are perpetually repeated in this fictional expanse, being used in an identical manner from what you'd anticipate from a newly indoctrinated, freshly independent adolescent, whose since moved into a university dorm, occupied by three Asiatics and several acolytes of the fermented, malaise ridden, six coloured rainbow. You would presume that the writers, knowing that this is a conspicuous, clearly defined fantasy setting, with a distinct subset of lore, history, culture and norms, would at minimum have the ingenuity to interpose a unique parlance into the game, converting the colloquial LGHDTV orientated phrases into something that is less jarring in contrast to the rest of the setting. An example of what I am alluding too is depicted in Veilguard, when Taash's mother attempts to rationalise her daughter's newfound delusions by referring to the Qunari dialect and customs, yet inexplicably the writers decided to never dwell on that again and reverted back to modern day terminology that denigrates the overarching lore featured in the story. Essentially, if the writers made the effort to morph terms such as 'non binary', 'pronouns' and the idea of transgenderism into something that was at least vaguely applicable to the setting depicted, it may have at the very minimum been rationalised and possibly accepted as reasonable by the most devout of fans. Albeit, currently, this flagrant insertion of the writers personal gender identity is now subject to ridicule and mockery, and has become a catalyst for one of the games most glaring flaws, with that being the poorly woven, uninspired writing, likely derived from tortured interns, fortune cookies, Tumblr blogposts and Discord vent channels.

Summarily, as an avid Dragon Age fan, I’ve seen fanfics treat the lore with more respect. Major reveals that should have been memorable, devolve into shallow manifestations of the writers unintelligible and rainbow encoded balderdash. It is blatantly apparent that fifteen years of punctilious world building has been set alight and morphed into a charred wreckage, a remnant of its former glory, and despite my respect for the initial instalments in this series, it's equally clear that avarice and rampant political lecturing, that comes across as simultaneously condescending and pandering in nature, has ultimately undermined the quality of Veilguard and caused it to besmirch the otherwise pristine reputation fostered over a decade and a half by the previous entries. Candidly, Veilguard does not even remotely do justice to the legacy cultivated and as a result will likely fade into obscurity, being regarded as the black sheep of an otherwise enthralling setting.
 

✟DEUS✟ Quercus
1
135 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
4.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
I cannot get over how bad the story and characters are. The gameplay, art, and everything else seems actually really good. But the dialogue is so unbearably awful I had to refund. This is not like dragon age of old.
 

TheFiend
175 products in account
0
93 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
40.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Very "meh" experience.

Pros:
- Combat is fun.
- World looks good.
- Performance has been good.
- The skill tree has depth.

Cons:
- Dialogue is awkward.
- The story isn't compelling.
- No real choices to play "your way", even the more harsh dialogue options are still a good guy play through.
- Companions are boring.

Overall: 6/10 experience, will update review if that changes. Cannot recommend for this price point.
 

greasygrip
0
125 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Product refunded

One word to describe this game? SAFE

I do not recommend this game for DA fans. If you like Dragon Age games for compelling dialog and world Immersion, look elsewhere. I played the previous games for the companions and the cool and thought-provoking decisions. If you're looking for crazy and heart wrenching decisions like with the mages in DAO, then you will be disappointed. I got two hours into the game before I couldn't take it anymore and returned the game. That whole "return to form" thing review sites were spouting was a straight up lie or from people that never played the previous games.

"PROS":
1. The overall story seems fine.
2. The combat is OK for a bit.
3. Solas and Varric are still good characters.
4. Voice acting is decent.
5. Environment is pretty

CONS:

1. The dialog is HORRIBLE, immersion breaking, and speaks to you like a child. No emotion and it's as deep as a puddle. No true renegade options for dialog. Most you get is slightly more stern. I only got a couple hours into this game before I could no longer stand the dialog anymore.

2. I HATE the character creator. They give me a slider to change shoulder width, but my torso is one size only?? I can't make a thin character, I can't make a fat character. It's average size or make your character look ridiculous and malformed.

3. Illusion of choice. In the end, no choice you make in this game seems to matter. Nothing changes and there are no compelling decisions to make.

4. The puzzles are braindead easy, can't even be considered puzzles.

5. The ONLY interesting characters are Solas and Varric, which is a given since they were characters already established from the previous game. Companions are basic and boring.

6. I hate the art style of the characters. So cartoony, feels like I'm in a Disney movie. Where's the dark fantasy aesthetic we all loved?

 

Voshta
365 products in account
0
57 people found this review helpful 5

Not Recommended
83.0 hrs on record
Posted: 11 November, 2024
Where do I start?
It hurts me, really, really hurts me to not recommend one Dragon Age game, but here we are.
The Veilguard is a good and a bad game at the same time. It starts really badly, with some of the worst dialogue I've ever seen in a game. In the middle, it gets better, and in the end, it made me cry. (damn you Bioware, why?) That's it, the end is good.

Good things:
The combat is fun, the best combat since Origins. The game environment is perfect, truly beautiful. Treviso and Necropolis are my favorites, gorgeous work by Bioware there. The hair is also great, the best hair in a video game to this day. I love it. The voice acting is good, as expected. I had no issues with FPS, crashes, etc, the game worked really well (which is rare these days). No EA app, no microtransactions, etc.

Now, the bad:
Companions: Really, I mean, really, Bioware? How can you guys improve in one area but leave behind what you used to do best, which is well written companions?
Davrin and Emmrich are the only ones who had good companion quests and are well written (I really like them). Harding was disappointment, Neve, starts ok, but somehow in the middle she gets boring?, Bellara looks like came out from a pixar movie, Lucanis is ok I guess. And, Taash... This is one of the worst, most horribly written characters in video game history, shallow, boring, monotone, egocentric, and annoying (is like a teenager in our team). Also, her romance with ***** is horrible, it made me uncomfortable in real life some things Taash says about ******.

Romance: Where??? Where’s the romance? 18 minutes of romance, really? We can't even hug our beloved before final fight? Why?

Choices: There’s little to none. You can be nice, friendly, or cool, and that’s it. No companion hating you :D, and they basically deleted everything we did in other games except for a few choices from Inquisition.

General story: The foundation of the story is there, it's good, but poorly written. It also doesn’t help when you hear modern day dialogue in a fantasy medieval game, it breaks the immersion. You can address today’s issues in a way that does not break player immersion, ok? Or don’t you guys remember Krem? Anyways.

This game is a mixed experience for me: it is not Dragon Age and it is at the same time? Sometimes I really enjoyed it and had fun, but there were too many unenjoyable moments as well. I can't believe this is what we got after TEN years. I just hope Bioware does better with Mass Effect, but, to be honest, I don't believe it.

In the end, I finished the game with a mix feeling of sadness and disappointment. Dragon Age is not what used to be.
 

plague
95 products in account
0
115 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
70.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
I started playing dragon age within the past few years, so I'm not looking at this game through nostalgia glasses. That being said, I don't find this game interesting. The combat is bland and the dialog isn't better. The more I play it, the more I want to replay bg3.
 

Senpai-Sama
0
152 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 14

Not Recommended
40.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Dragon Age: The Veilguard. A game made from a bioware development team that has lost all its veteran staff and is felt substantially in this release.

Let's start with the story and writing. The writing is incredibly mediocre with an over-usage and reliance on well established cliches that pop up at every nook and cranny. Dialogue is lot of... "Hey that enemy must have gone through that door!" And all there is a straight corridor with one door at the end. Dialogue is simple and uninspired with your companions spouting painfully obvious observations and advice that might as well be holding your hand.

The combat? Well to be fair, it is one of the game stronger points... if you aren't a Dragon Age Origins fan. The game completely does away with any control over your team with the most influence you have over them being a pop up menu where you can select abilities with cooldowns. Combat in this game is compared by many to God Of War.

The cast? Well, this is where the review gets a bit "controversial" dare I say. The cast of characters is predominantly strong women with a distinct lake of men. Since this game was developed with the idea of inclusivity at its forefront, the game is practically inclusive to everything but... straight white men. The white men you do encounter are rare but are found in positions of weakness or have failed in their duties to some capacity. The cast of companions are okay but lack any sort of depth you have come to expect from previous entries.

How do your companions mesh? Well, considering this game is supposed to be dark fantasy, you would think your companions would take the subject matter a bit more seriously. Instead, the party banter will be a lot of sarcasm, jokes, and distasteful content not suited to the Dragon Age setting and universe.

The visuals? The game looks beautiful but that's not what people care about with Dragon Age: The Veilguard so I will address the dreadful politics part of this review.

This game panders heavily to the far left spectrum of American politics. Focusing especially on gender roles and identities. Without spoiling, there are a few conversations with your party that occur in this game that are focused entirely on this gender subject. In many cases, the story of Dragon Age itself takes a back seat to instead tell the audience a story of modern politics. This is definitely divisive and will create a huge divide between fans of the Dragon Age series.

I have left out a lot but I think I covered the things people cared about the most with this game. Take my advice: IF YOU PLAY THIS GAME, do not think of it as a Dragon Age game and perhaps the experience will be a little better for you.
 

AhadiTiger
399 products in account
3
35 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
34.5 hrs on record
Posted: 22 March
Gave it a chance... Save your money; not worth it at any price. There's a reason it's 50% off just 5 months after launch.
 

Post
0
306 people found this review helpful
13 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
41.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 November, 2024
After finishing the game I just learned how can you customize your Inquisition character why there is no importing save data from the previous game!? sadly so many people have missed it :(
 

Witch-King of Angmar
331 products in account
0
54 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
115.0 hrs on record
Posted: 14 November, 2024
Edits: I have finally beaten the game and have updated the review to reflect such. Short version: Everything about this game is terrible - the gameplay, dialogue, lore, companions, and protagonist.

I will preface this review by saying I have never had any social media account nor have I ever made a comment on YouTube. I hate this game so much, I felt, for once, I had to leave a review.

I love Dragon Age. I have spent 700 hours playing Inquisition, and I couldn't say how many hours for 1 and 2 because when I played them, it didn't keep track. I have beaten Origins at least a dozen times, and I've beaten Dragon Age 2 - all full playthroughs. I *love* the Dragon Age games. Except this one.

This game doesn't even feel like a Dragon Age game. First and foremost, this game cannot be played with a keyboard and mouse. This game is a button-mashing action console game dancing around in the corpse of the Dragon Age franchise and because of this, you need a gaming controller to play it. I don't own a console; I play tactical games. I hate action console style games. This doesn't mean I like easy games - I downloaded mods to make nightmare mode *harder* on the other Dragon Age games. I like a challenge, just not like this. I hate the combat so much, I put it on Storymode where I can't die because I just want it over as quickly as possible.

So. Fine. I don't like the combat. It's only HALF THE GAME. There are other things to like, right? ...Right?? If only.

From only a handful of hours into the game, I wasn't impressed with the writing, in general. I played as an elven mage; I figured with the Solas aspect, it'd be the most interesting. Nope. Doesn't matter. Standing face to face with an ancient elven god, and my character pretends it's just another Tuesday. Not only that, the game dialogue made so little sense, I wasn't sure if she was or wasn't Dalish! Your choice of background, race, and class do not matter *at all.* If you're an elf, you don't get mistaken for a slave in Tevinter. If you're a Qunari in Tevinter - despite the previous war and current occupation - no one comments on it at all. You don't get special dialogue that matters. Nothing.

There's a moment where she looked into a mirror and could comment about her vallaslin. I was expecting something about the history of where they came from, maybe an option to choose how the character viewed them now, a dialogue about how they began as slave brands but they've evolved to have new meaning. *Something* that talked about culture and change or ANYTHING relevant to being an elf with vallaslin. Instead, the character talked about her tattoos as if she were in the modern world and it was part of her image. It felt *so* out of place. The bizarre overly-modern dialogue persists throughout the entire game and is incredibly off-putting (and intensely clunky).

In other sloppy dialogue, when you're speaking to some elves, an elf comments that two of the evanuris weren't remembered as benevolent rulers. ....Do the writers have *NO IDEA* what transpired in the other games? They were never remembered as rulers. Ever. They were remembered *AS GODS*! It's so infuriating, and is, unfortunately, sloppy throughout the game. Truly, in the entire game the only really good dialogue belongs to Solas.

And speaking of sloppy writing, this game *utterly* murders the lore of the series while simultaneously taking out every bit of grey morality. The Qunari make absolutely no sense: they side with elven mage gods. Yes, a people who kill every mage outside of their own and collar/stitch up the lips of their own mages decide to team up with BLIGHTED ELVEN MAGE GODS. Makes perfect sense. And that's only the tip of the iceberg. There's so much more. Here's another small slice: Taash, the Qunari companion, tells you, "You can leave the Qun. It's not a cult." ....Ah, so the group of people who have re-education camps aren't cult-like at all. The people who call you "Tal-Vashoth" and hunt you down to kill you if you leave...are fine with you leaving. ...Right. It continues on.

The game ignores that the Antivan Crows dealt with trafficking, child conscription, buying slaves, and worse. They're now freedom fighters with hearts of gold. The Lords of Fortune, a mercenary guild whose motto is, "For gold and glory!" have historians on staff so they can return items of cultural importance. Everything is so sanitized and utterly ridiculous. Slavery in Tevinter isn't even brought up.

One other glaring issue is that the game's peoples no longer have any identity nor are there any moral quandaries. You travel to Nevarra, Tevinter, Arlathan Forest, Antiva - but there is no unifying culture for these places *at all*. The Dalish - an insular group who are supposed to be one people - are now black, white, Hispanic, and Asian with a myriad of accents. This is also true for EVERY OTHER PLACE. When you make every place so inclusive that they are all the same, you have demolished cultural identity. It's so horrendously glaring with the Dalish because they are supposed to be such a small population.

On top of ALL of these issues: the companions are non-entities. Because morality and deeper issues have been washed away, the companions seem to care about nothing. There aren't any real disagreements, any deep beliefs. Companions and factions both have been watered down into a thin gruel of niceness that I find it hard to care about. They think that we should stop the gods who want to destroy Thedas, and they all agree that anyone who accepts power from the gods and uses it to hurt others is evil. That's pretty much where their opinions end. (This is on top of the fact that the companions do nothing in combat, have 3 abilities, are on long global cooldowns, and have no worthwhile banter.)

The last severe issue with this game is that it is in no way a roleplaying game. You play Rook; you do not get to choose Rook's personality. Rook is already Rook. Everything Rook says is on a scale of nice to slightly less nice. You do not get to disagree with your companions or even get angry at enemies. Not only that, but every interaction with your companions boils down to some variation of, "You're a valuable member of the team," "It's not your fault," and "Let me validate your feelings." I felt like I should be charging for therapy.

Do not buy this game. I finished it, but it was an unrewarding grind. If you really want the interesting lore from it, just google Solas' regrets.
 

Agent 99
0
126 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Not steam deck verified, despite saying otherwise. Can't even reach 30fps unless reduce render scale to below 87% and even then it's not a stable 30fps.
 

Limes
1
118 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
7.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Sadly, just not what I was expecting from a dragon age game. Taking all the socio/political messages aside, it misses the most crucial part of any RPG which it to have a well written story with engaging characters.
 

Mr Chris Lynx
1
38 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
57.2 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
This game has Dragon Age on the tittle, but its very far from being it.

Good thing:

- Music
- Art style, scenarios looks gorgeous
- The final mission is decent
- Graphics are good, hair looks very well in the game
- Good duration, around 60 hours to do 100%
- The skill tree its ok, you can do interesting builds

The bad stuff

- The writing is HORRIBLE
- Companions are insufferable, you can maybe save 3 of them but the rest are awful, since their quests and the writing of the game doesn't help them. Taash is fighting with Sebastian to be the worst companion ever
- No chance to be evil in the game, only good or good
- The decisions story-wise are almost nonexistent, you can make choices about stuff but the outcome will be the same at the end
- The combat is simple and repetitive
- You can bring only 2 allies with you, and they are immortal (if they can die they didn't in my play-through even fighting dragons and bosses), and the commands are 3 attacks and focus on one target, the combo they can do is always the same, no matter what magic or skills you use on it
- Missing characters from other games and ones returning being butchered with the poor writing
- Agenda being pushed in the game, played in Spanish and they used "neutral language" in all Antiva, which is annoying, didn't bother me if 2 or 3 used it but 95% of them? nope. Side missions about gender that doesn't fit in the game at all
- Even if the game have some "dark atmosphere" in certain locations it still doesn't feel like a dragon age.
- No gore, first game you kill a rat and your character was soaked in blood, here you kill 3000 enemies not a single drop


Conclusion: 4 as a game , a 2 as a Dragon Age, worst in the series.

Buy it on sale if you are a fan, 20-30 bucks, more its theft
 

Revan
0
50 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
66.7 hrs on record
Posted: 12 December, 2024
My feelings on this game are incredibly complicated. If you want fun gameplay, fantastic environments, and mostly decent voice acting, then it's a decent game - and of course, one vitally important factor: if you've not played any other DA game, then you'll probably generally enjoy it.

If you're like me, and have played the game series for years, waiting anxiously for a decade for Dragon Age: Dreadwolf, then don't play it. The story is set in Thedas, and yet it doesn't feel set in Thedas. Your choices from other games don't matter - even the ones they tell you will. Plot holes are in abundance, inconsistencies even more so. I came into this game with an open mind and an open heart; I knew I wasn't going to get everything I wanted, and even then, I was left feeling like I had been slapped in the face and then laughed at. The amount of writer changeovers is so painfully obvious. It's barely an RPG, considering that you become everyone's therapist and can never be a bad person. Your decisions barely seem to matter in the long run, either. The entire game feels detached from the Dragon Age series, which in fairness was always a little corny, and none of the games were perfect, but at least they allowed characters, both playable and not, to be complex, sometimes even downright bad, people. Will I be replaying it? Absolutely not.

The devs will tell you this was a labour of love. I pray that that love never finds me.
 

morrison
0
59 people found this review helpful 24

Not Recommended
30.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
Finished the game. Maker give me strength. What a horrible experience. It's really hard to say anything without drifting into an emotional rant, but I will try my best.

Good things first:

The game worked well from day 1 and after a little bit of tinkering, everything was running flawless on Linux with Proton. Compared to other games, it was a very solid, bug-free experience, which was a pleasant surprise.

I also want to show some appreciation towards the artists who did the environment design. They did an absolutely amazing job and even if my hardware is not the newest anymore, the game scaled down nicely and still looked beautiful on low settings.

The combat also felt okay, although I didn't explore much of it. I think no one plays Dragon Age for the combat, but if the rest of the game wouldn't be so annoying, I could see myself having fun with it.

That's unfortunately the only good things I have to say.

So we move on to the disaster:

The only thing that could save this game would be saying it's not Dragon Age, and I would probably not even be upset if it was sold as anything else. But letting us fight through three games for one and a half decades, care about the world, about the people, the places, just to have it erased completely (and literally, reading the news from the South of Thedas) is such a big f*** you to all the fans that have supported this series for all those years.

Not only did this game erase all your previous world states (something Dragon Age games were famous for), it erased the whole concept of it. There's only one path you can take in Veilguard, and it all ends up the same way. There are no choices, no consequences, and the only thing that made a tiny difference in the end is whether you leveled up your allies or not.

The writing in this game is absolutely awful, and it breaks my heart to say that about a BioWare game, who was always famous for great stories. I don't know much about storytelling, but one thing that seems to be a golden rule is "show, don't tell". And this game just tells you everything and shows you nothing. Everything you learn about yourself, the conflict, the world, is what characters explain to you. They tell you how to feel, what to do, what to say (yes that's right, there's no choice) and explain everything that happens in a way that sounds like it was made for a five year old. The way this game holds your hand and treats your intellect is borderline insulting.

After 30 hours I got the worst ending, everyone is dead, and tbh at some point I was aiming for it, because I wanted to get it over with. I really didn't care anymore. I never played a game this way, I always tried to make things right and save as many people as possible. But not here, I just wanted this to end, at any cost.

The lack of politics really pisses me off!

Yes you heard me. Obviously this game has a lot of politics, but all the wrong kind. Instead of trying to force real world 21st century political messages into the game and ruining everyone's escape from this ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ reality we live in, they should have maybe focused on Thedas politics a bit more. There is so much going on in Thedas, and the previous games revealed many interesting things about the North that I was excited to see, but it all gets completely ignored. You are fighting something 100 times worse than the blight and somehow the only people involved are those 7 fractions of which 5 you never heard of? Where are the actual people, the countries, their armies and governments, the divine, the Templars, everything? Where are the people you have to make deals with to unite under the common goal of defeating this threat? Rook and their gang feel like a fantasy world inside a fantasy world that operates completely outside and independent of their own environment.

Instead of getting an actual immersion into the problems of Thedas, we get modern style behavior lectures where every single conversation feels like a teenage group therapy session. It's completely disrespectful. This is not representation and diversity, this is the most horrible and lazy use of stereotypes I have ever seen. Topics that shouldn't even be in video games - or at least should be handled with extra care and great metaphorical finesse - are thrown around in a patronizing and polarizing way that makes me sick. And I am not only talking about gender identity, but also religious and philosophical beliefs as well as the subject of death (I find Manfred highly offensive). This game is crossing so many lines while pretending to be morally superior, it's disgusting.


I could go on forever, but I think I am getting tired, and those who have played the game likely know what I'm talking about anyways. What a disgrace. I hope the people responsible for this garbage read all the criticism and be haunted for the rest of their lives for what they have done to this series.

tl;dr: Dragon Age died the moment David Gaider left.
 

JudithOnLinux
0
133 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
64.9 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Product received for free

Sadly after 10 hours of game play, over 20+ startup crashes, and a Blue-screen on startup I've decided to just go ahead and write my review.
I cannot in good faith recommend this game, it is totally anemic In the ways that really matter to me. The puzzles are insultingly easy, the Dialogue sounds like it was written by an intern with their boss lurking over their shoulder, and the combat isn't fulfilling at any difficulty level.
I don't understand why these puzzles are in the game when they take absolutely no effort to complete, is it just to pad game time?
Not only is the dialogue unforgivably boring but I also feel like I'm being treated like a child. Why is there no way to actually disagree or be mean? Why are we still using a dialogue wheel that does not reflect what the character is actually going to say? Why is there not a way to scroll upward to re-read what was missed?
 

ilittereate
155 products in account
3
188 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 10

Not Recommended
100.9 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
The downvote is (now not only) for those who are a fan of older installations of the franchise, but also because of frequent issues I've had during these 90+ hours.

IF you are a fan of older renditions of the franchise, I cannot recommend this newest installation without expressing the following. You are NOT the intended audience for this game (CRPG v ARGP.) The original creators and team are long gone and this, I believe, is an attempt to bring back the franchise and introduce it to a newer audience. It's not a bad game, again, but it's also not anything great.

UPDATED REVIEW 11/23/2024
I still, even with all these hours have not been able to complete the game. There is a learning curve with the ARPG style (and I am playing on the hardest difficulty-- which I do not recommend. They just add a lot more health...which makes the fights just annoyingly tedious.) Could I drop the difficulty? Yes, but then I would not be comfortably speaking on the combat system for my intended difficulty. (And I've seen a lot of other reviews mention doing this already.)

AT THIS POINT I AM KEEPING MY NEGATIVE REVIEW and will add a (probably long) review once complete to hit on various aspects of the game in depth . The reason for this update is because I am fighting with the game to just have my custom appearance and THINGS HAVE GOTTEN WORSE POST PATCH 3.

I know about the 'go to the lighthouse to fix it' schtick.
1: That is not a fix and should not be relied upon this should be fixed.
2: There are some areas in the game where this is not viable (locked into areas and even worse during cut scenes).
3: I'm quite over having to fully close the game to open it only to find it hadn't 'fixed' itself.

Ill be returning after a week of decompress to HOPEFULLY finish the game.

OLD REVIEW:
I could only stand maybe an hour of gameplay (I spent the majority of my first three hours in character creation) before having to put it down. I WILL be returning, just not right now or in the immediate future.

First, if you are hoping for anything like some of the older franchises (I myself am a diehard DA:O fan, but have an appreciation for what they were trying to accomplish with 2 and Inquisition), you are NOT the intended audience. I can only presume Inquisition fans of the game (and completely new players) will enjoy what I was presented with thus far.

The character expressions are not the best at the time of my review. That may or may not change with patches. I am banking on modders helping in that aspect should it not come from the team proper.

The writing is... lacking. Is the best way I can phrase it. Look, there is a lot of telling and not a lot of showing. Characters tell you things but it feels like its part of a script and not because they have any real care for the topic at hand.

Cut scenes. There are so freaking many cut scenes in the game. The opening cut scene could have easily been cut in half? This was one of the biggest reasons why I've set the game aside. I'm HOPING this dies down throughout the game or gets better with better writing.

Fighting mechanics. Now, it's been a while but I think the mechanics they have gone for are more similar to inquisition? It's gives very hack-and-slash to me. There is this indicator that tells you when to dodge, not bad but meh. And as a rogue player for all my first playthroughs, I was just not impressed. If you are interested in WARRIOR or MAGE, please see other comments/reviews as I have not touched them yet. (This is the first game making me wish I hadn't touched rogue though.)

The character art, I'm not a fan. I missed the big hooplah about it before (as I block any mentions of games I am interested in from my feeds as soon as they are announced) but it feels too disney/cartoony for my liking. It's a choice, I'll give them that.

I could go on, but honestly, I would just be nit picking and am absolutely aware of my bias for the older games.
 

rivain
0
68 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2024
Product refunded

Maybe this is a decent game...

But this is not a Dragon Age Game.
 

Ariwara
450 products in account
0
41 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
50.6 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
woke ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥, poorly written family friendly dialogues, most of the quests and companion stories are shallow
for pros there are nice graphic and character creator.
 

Spruce
232 products in account
0
166 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
13.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
13 hours in and I'm starting to rush through the story missions to see if it gets better. Only played Inquisition, but this one feels like a franchise spinoff, not a direct continuation of the last game. Everything feels so foreign compared to the last game, good in some ways and bad in others. One of my personal pet peeves that almost every other modern RPG has at this point is a lack of a conversational text log. This is a massive issue in this game considering how much of the dialogue is either exposition or just downright uninteresting. The companions in this game feel like a huge step down compared to Inquisition. I feel like the character archetypes in Inquisition were varied enough to where everyone was able to find at least 2 or 3 companions that they really vibed with. All of the companions in this game feel like variations of the same happy-go-lucky archetype. I used to really like when companions would bicker or have philosophical discussions from different viewpoints... none of that in this game. "Arguments" in this game are middle school level disagreements that I don't even think would qualify as banter in past games. This game coasts off of the merit of previous installments that came before it. I genuinely believe that if this game was a separate IP from Dragon Age and didn't have pre-established lore to fall back on, this game would have seen extremely middling sales. Will update this IF I end up playing more. Inquisition took about 20 hours for me to reach Skyhold, so I want to give this game the same chance.
 

2PimpAButterfree
1
54 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
30.4 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
I have returned to this review after some extra hours of playing, I am still disappointed, but I don´t consider the game such an epic failure. So, what should I add...

- It is less corridor-like, but the first impression was really bad, and that matters in my cookbook. Let´s call it semi-open.
- I still don´t like the combat style and the "Diablo III" style of abilities and skills... Inflation of numbers is not a good combat system, why is everything like damage or hitpoints in hundreds or thousands?
- I don´t really care what gear I use, it has no meaning to me, just choose one the game says is the best, not emotional attachment of any kind, no interest in looting. Looking for chests is like annoying obligation with no excitement.
- Finally, I started to enjoy the story and found dealing with companions less annoying, until I reached the point of deus ex machina (why???) attack of dragons on two cities and it left me wishing I never bought this game since it is so lame.

ORIGINAL REVIEW KEPT BELOW:

I am so bored to death by the lack of choice and corridor-like story. We were hoping to get a modern RPG with an open world or at least semi-open. What we got is this parody where we can´t make simple decisions without being guided by other characters and constantly reminded what we should do, where to go and which box to loot... Anyway, I will try to play more and hope it will get better, but my scepticism is strong. I may update this review later.
 

khadgarr
2
70 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
31.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
It's not the worst game ever, but it's not a Dragon Age either, it's just an average RPG like many other.
 

insane_robot
0
122 people found this review helpful 12

Not Recommended
242.9 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
It seems BioWare has learned nothing since 2017.

Dragon Age: The Veilguard is a colossal disappointment. It apes the most superficial elements of a BioWare game, making no effort to modernize what is a now fairly dated formula, while delivering absolutely none of the writing, characterization, rpg depth and imagination that made previous BioWare games so great.

I've been a long series fan, enjoyed the previous ones but there is a list of issues with this game & it starts with the devs gaslighting & hiding plot relevant information for fear of backlash, mainly that previous choices no longer matter after 3 series of games & committing to shady practices like silencing or striking content creators who are not suffering from toxic positivity.

The art design is smooth, shiny & cartoonish. Creating a Disney/Dreamworks version out of a beloved IP and considering every NPC looks like a version of Shrek's Lord Farquaad, I believe it.

The gameplay is a knock off of God of War 2018's with repetitive skill trees that have eliminated the uniqueness of being a mage as every class has magic properties all the while filling out the space with pointless passives. The HUD is overwhelmed with indicators and effects, you can't see the game you're playing without having a seizure and the dialogue & overall writing is pathetic, like listening to a bunch of babies first time in an RPG along with redundant and pointless banter that's just meant to fill silence without adding anything to the characters speaking, not to mention being unable to be renegade or rival like other instalments allowed.

The story is a Marvel version of what was Inquisition's interesting and decent setup to a sequel, with what was the antagonist being sidelined to an advisor for the majority of the story & along with the few cameos of other individuals who now suffer amnesia and unable to recount the previous parts of the lives you had a hand in developing. The overall tone constantly pushes its need to validate identity issues, all the while the game doesn't know what it's trying to preform as.

From the start of its change from Dreadwolf to Veilguard, it was stated that it was to highlight the companions and how they interact with the story, except they do little to no damage, they have no health bar, enemies ignore them all of the time so there's no party combat dynamic, you can't control them which makes your class choice extremely pivotal if you wanted to play a different class just to start again, when you use their abilities the cooldown is shared for each one so you can only use one out of six every 20-30 seconds.

So what about this game highlights the companions?

This game and the devs in and of it/them selves have created such a schism in the fanbase from people who just want a resolution to a story they care so much about & those fans who refuse to be held hostage to pay to see their favorite series massacred by people who don't have the passion & never were part of its original writing to begin with. BioWare is so out of form & out of touch with their audience they had to sell them out, just so those who can push a certain narrative and self insert happily all while never remembering the characters of previous games who helped create the foundation that they now virtue signal on.

If this is the future for Dragon Age then I'd rather collect shards in the Hinterlands.

So disheartened by what the gaming industry has become, back to retro games till someone with talent and experience can write a game on their own & not use slave based technology like AI to fill out the spots they are incapable of doing. Don't support this trash or more garbage like this will be made. Vote with your wallet.

Verdict: 1/10
 

K9liberator
344 products in account
4
88 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
56.8 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Review: Dragon Age: Vailguard

Edit: About the missing dark atmosphere.
Edit: 5-11-2024 finished game.

Updated Review: Dragon Age: Vailguard

After further reflection, I’ve decided to revise my score for Dragon Age: Vailguard, particularly for longtime fans of the series. Originally, I rated the game a 6 out of 10, acknowledging its technical polish but highlighting significant flaws in its storytelling and world-building. However, after experiencing the full game, I’m left with such disappointment that I feel compelled to change my score to a 4 out of 10 for Dragon Age fans.

While the game’s combat and graphics remain strong points, they’re ultimately overshadowed by the severe mishandling of the series' story and lore. I won’t spoil the ending, but I will say this: the writers have effectively retconned nearly every major decision and storyline established in previous Dragon Age games. It’s as if the past choices, struggles, and complex storylines that made this series beloved were simply erased. The ending itself feels hollow and unsatisfying, failing to address any of the longstanding questions from previous games, leaving fans with a complete lack of closure.

This game could have worked as an entirely new IP, unburdened by Dragon Age lore and expectations. As it stands, Vailguard does not feel like a Dragon Age game, but rather a misguided attempt to capitalize on the franchise name without respecting its core elements or fanbase. For new players, it may be an entertaining RPG. For those who cherished the original games, however, Vailguard is nothing short of a disappointment.

First review

Pros:

"Dragon Age: Vailguard" has a lot to offer from a technical standpoint. The combat system is engaging, offering satisfying, dynamic battles that feel impactful and fluid. The game strikes a nice balance between tactical and action-based mechanics, making it enjoyable for both newcomers and fans of more active combat. The graphics are a definite strong point, with beautifully rendered environments, and a detailed fantasy world that’s visually impressive. Plus, it’s well-optimized; the game runs smoothly on my PC without any significant frame rate drops or technical hiccups, which is refreshing.

Cons:

However, once you move past the surface, the issues with "Vailguard" become impossible to ignore, especially for fans of the classic "Dragon Age" series. The storytelling feels like a massive step back, leaving me puzzled by the numerous plot holes in just the first few hours. Major elements from the established lore of previous games are either ignored or hastily rewritten, leaving a disjointed, hollow narrative that feels disconnected from the world we’ve come to love.

The writing, too, is a major disappointment. Instead of immersing players in the world with subtle, layered storytelling, the game resorts to clumsy, heavy-handed exposition. Characters seem to deliver lecture-like monologues, explaining every detail rather than allowing players to piece things together naturally. This approach strips the game of any mystery or intrigue, making it feel more like a "Dragon Age" TED Talk than an immersive RPG experience.

Adding to this lack of immersion is the game's failure to build a believable world. Previous "Dragon Age" games were praised for their world-building, with deep lore and richly detailed settings that made Thedas feel alive. In "Vailguard," however, that magic is missing. The environments and characters feel hollow, like they’re only there to serve the main plot points without any depth or substance. This lack of attention to the world around the protagonist makes it difficult to feel invested in the stakes or in the outcome of the story.

The game's beginning is another misstep. Instead of drawing players in with a compelling introduction, "Vailguard" starts by bombarding players with a detailed account of the protagonist's life, attempting to tell rather than show. There’s no connection, no emotional investment – just a series of explanations that fail to make the protagonist feel like a real person. A more effective start could have been to allow players to experience an origin story firsthand, perhaps freeing slaves, meeting characters like Varric, and then progressing to the main timeline. A prologue like this would have helped establish character connections, deepen the world, and give players a real reason to care about what happens next.

One of the most disappointing aspects is the absence of the dark, gritty atmosphere that has defined the series. Previous Dragon Age games were steeped in a sense of danger, where the stakes felt real, and the world seemed to be hanging by a thread. In Vailguard, that oppressive, perilous tone is missing. The stakes feel strangely low, even though the protagonist is supposedly fighting against gods. Despite the catastrophic implications of the main plot, no one else in the world seems remotely concerned. It’s as if only the protagonist cares about this monumental struggle, which feels both unbelievable and immersion-breaking. Given the scale of the conflict, it’s baffling that the rest of the world remains apathetic; surely, there would be factions, organizations, and everyday citizens rallying or resisting as well. This lack of urgency and broader involvement makes the world feel hollow, and it robs the story of its weight and believability.

Conclusion:

In the end, "Dragon Age: Vailguard" is a technically competent game that falls short in its storytelling and character development. For new players unfamiliar with the franchise, it’s an enjoyable RPG that could easily rate around a 7.5 or even an 8 out of 10 for its combat and visuals alone. However, for longtime fans of the "Dragon Age" series, it’s a disappointing experience. The neglect of established lore, poor writing, and lackluster world-building result in a game that feels disconnected from what made the series special in the first place. As a dedicated fan, I’d have to rate it a 6 out of 10 – a game that, while technically polished, fails to capture the essence of what "Dragon Age" is all about.
 

denbal648
0
63 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
12.2 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
Visuals are good, story is boring, combat is boring, UI is dreadful, zero character development, no meaningful decisions to be made, can't build meaningful relationships with your companions, world feels dead and empty with NPC's standing around everywhere doing literally nothing. Overall just a bad game, swindled me out of $60.
 

Baelnir
0
54 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
18.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
This is my very first Dragon Age Game and the only thing I'm really enjoying so far is the character creator
Every "evil" option gives me "I don't care that you broke your elbow" vine vibes, there are no real consequences to your choices
The dialogue overall + the companions appear shallow and the combat feels repetitive
Had a couple of annoying bugs like being stuck in an area with no way out (couldn't even teleport away) or my characters looks being resetted to default thus resulting in having to reload an earlier autosave file

I will still complete it some day, but I would rather have spent my money on the other Dragon Age games
 

purinswan
256 products in account
0
53 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
44.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
As a huge Dragon Age fan i powered through this one....
If this was any other generic fantasy RPG i would say 6/10 give it a try, if you like fantasy RPGs.
Sadly this is supposed to be Dragon Age 4. Game fails on many aspects, especialy at feeling like a DA game.
The tone is completely off (no dark fantasy) and the writing is terrible 90% of the time. This is btw not because the game is "woke". DA was always pretty inclusive, though not nearly as insufferable preachy about it.
Combat is fun for the first 15 to 20 hours, but gets super repetetiv and boring after that point. The main story is actually kinda good. Sadly all the side and companion contend lands somewhere between terrible and mediocore. Game looks nice though and runs very smooth. I had no bugs except 2 crashes, but that was probably not the games fault (autosave feature is very good, lost no progress).

TLDR -- can't recommend, doesen't feel like a DA game, just watch a youtube compilation for the main story instead
 

CallMeHabbo
0
50 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 43

Not Recommended
31.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
The Dragon Age series officially ended for me the moment they announced that our previous decisions aka Dragon Age Keep would no longer amount to this current story. While I've had a ton of fun with this game in the hours I have currently, I cannot endorse this game as a successor to the previous titles and would prefer to see this as a spin-off or simply just another canon fable to add to the Dragon Age lore.

With each Dragon Age game, they've all been incredibly different from one another both mechanically and aesthetically but the one thing that kept it together was this chain of events that affected each game whether that'd be major or subtle. We no longer have that and yet are left with a combat-focused ARPG that isn't bad but it definitely isn't on-par with Dragon Age Origins storytelling.

If you are a diehard DA fan of the old games, this most likely won't be for you. I was able to enjoy it when I recognized it as a separate entity from my beloved DA:O and have laid that universe to rest with Trespasser. This is a solid RPG with fun mechanics and beautiful destinations but the writing hasn't caught my attention and the companions have yet to shine through.

I'd recommend this game as a "Wait For Sale". We'll see if my opinion changes when I beat this game.
 

Lxninja
0
67 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
17.6 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
This game is bad. Writing is terrible, companions are bland and you cant disagree with them, nuance is dead and you are treated, as a lobotomite with short-term memory loss.
Guild of assasins is actually a wholesome family that are protectors of the weak, in magocracy built on slave labour, you do not see a single slave, racism also doesnt exist. Gameplay is mediocre, not the best, but not the worst.
Armour design in this game is also terrible, especially headwear.
As a stand alone game it is 5/10 arpg, as a Dragon age game its 2/10, because it ruins or destroys pretty much everything that happened in previous games. At least perfomance is good.
 

Inquisitor
275 products in account
0
84 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
146.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
AWFUL writing, pretty much no choises.
 

DumDup
1,156 products in account
0
112 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
15.1 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Not a fan, would replay Inquisition a dozen times over before re-purchasing this again (presuming my refund goes through).
Character models are fugly, levels are on rails. And overall dull.
 

The Burninator
0
102 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
58.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
The gameplay is fine but the writing is awful. The characters are flat, the dialogue is shallow, and the script is so repetitive I started to wonder if it was written by AI.

As low as my opinion of this game is, the game's opinion of me is lower. Character and tool tips constantly explain simple puzzles and plot points to me as though I'm 5 years old despite the game being rated M.

As someone with 100+ hours in each of the previous 3 games, I wanted this game to be good so badly, but as a Dragon Age game, it's a massive disappointment. As a decent-but-patronizing RPG, I guess it's okay.

Updating now that I've finished the game. My opinion hasn't changed. I bought the game's artbook and I can say with confidence that I would've been happier if they hadn't changed it drastically part way through its troubled decade of production.
 

oliven713
0
109 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
36.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
A couple hours in and I am horribly disappointed with the writing. Feels like a marvel movie level of writing.
The combat is better than ever, but the gameplay is less of a world to explore and more of a theme park.

Edit: Editing my review because finally got to the blighted village. Everything to do with the blight is BADASS. The party dialogue is still cringe as hell and the linear gameplay is still meh, but the blight is metal as ♥♥♥♥.
 

Bo Henry
3
39 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
42.1 hrs on record
Posted: 6 November, 2024
Product received for free

All I'm going to say is, if you've never played the first 3 games you'll love this game. Or if your world state is exactly how this game is setting it, you won't have trouble accepting the liberties they took while making the game.

For me, I played every single game. And right now I feel like I might as well sided with the Archdemon in the first game and just let it devour the whole world. I hate how they treated the previous games. It feels so spiteful as if what they're doing was the best thing ever and if you're an old fan, you're the loser. It was super off-putting for me from the start and as I progress I just feel more and more dislike towards this game. And god knows I tried to love it. I really, REALLY tried.

Things I don't like: The dialogues are badly written, only a few companions are lovable, the soundtrack just doesn't feel right despite the fact that it's made by the legendary Hans Zimmer and Lorne Balfe! Just HOW??? The combat is fun but eventually gets repetitive after a while.

Things I like: You can pet animals, environments are gorgeous, especially Treviso, The story is okay. (But in the end it doesn't even matter lol. You'll see) maps are easier to navigate.

That's it. That's the review. They now have Mass Effect on their chopping block and I'm scared.

Edit: I don't really care about the "woke" stuff people keep undeservedly bashing this game for. David Gaider himself, who was the original writer for this game, is also openly gay. The same guy who worked on Baldur's Gate II by the way. DA games have always been inclusive. The issue I have with is the dev's completely throwing the first two games into the bin and giving this game a soft reboot. Nothing you did ever mattered and will never matter in the future games. I hope new players enjoy the game but I'm honestly out.
 

LunaRed
0
112 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
With almost 10 years since the last Dragon Age game, I find myself disappointed. Is this game worth playing? As a standalone game, maybe. For Dragon Age fans, I'm not so sure.

The game offers stunning environments with impressive vistas, and the combat seems like an improvement on DA:I which I actually enjoyed. So why the nagative review?

Veilguard starts by immediately undermining its own narrative foundation. The built storyline from Inquisition's Trespasser DLC is discarded - your Inquisitor vanishes without proper resolution, replaced by a new protagonist named Rook who feels disconnected from the rich lore of previous games.

Dialogue Issues. Remember the witty banter between Varric and Cassandra? The deep philosophical discussions with Solas? The meaningful choices that shaped relationships? That's all gone. Instead, we get dialogue that feels like it was written for a young adult novel - simplistic, and lacking any of the series' signature nuance. Characters constantly tell you how they feel rather than showing it through actions and subtle dialogue. Conversations feel less like organic interactions and more like checking boxes off a "character development" checklist.

Pacing. While the combat system is fun and the skills offer interesting possibilities, the game's poor pacing and writing make it hard to stay engaged. It feels very "consolized" and streamlined, go from point A to point B, talk to person A then to person B.

Narrative Deterioration. Solas, built up as a compelling antagonist, is sidelined for generic villains. And speaking of Solas - in the intro he is introduced as "Him", did the writers just assume Solas gender?! For a studio seemingly focused on inclusion, this feels oddly presumptuous. This is a joke btw, and sadly shows the sad state of things when I can create a He/him non-binary Dwarf. Really...? Look, I don't really care about "wokeness" in games - Dragon Age has always featured LGBTQ+ characters (like Dorian and Krem), and they were fantastic because they felt natural and were well-written. It's not a deal breaker, but when the core game is already struggling, having forced representation and checking diversity boxes instead of writing compelling characters just makes a bad game worse.

Dragon Age: The Veilguard represents a concerning departure from what made the series special. While it nails some technical aspects like environment design and combat mechanics, the poor writing and pacing make it difficult to stay invested. Would I recommend it for Dragon Age fans? Only to those curious to witness how far the mighty have fallen. For everyone else, the original trilogy remains the definitive Dragon Age experience.
 

Rederik
465 products in account
0
62 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
65.5 hrs on record
Posted: 13 November, 2024
So many problems with this one. It is a shame that this will likely be the last DA game, but if this is the standard we can expect from Bioware now, no tears will be shed.

Let us start with the positives so we can recall what they did correctly.
The game has pretty good art. In terms of environmental graphics, it looks better than any Bioware title to date, and most EA ones for that matter
There were very few bugs at launch compared to previous Bioware titles. This was playtested properly
Some of the quests do hit the nostalgia aspect of the original DA:O quite well
Them getting rid of the open world WoW nonsense that DA:I had was a good move
No ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ EA launcher needed

The negatives:
This does not feel like a DA game. The tone is cartoony, and not reminiscent of the dark fantasy DA world
Voice acting is.....lacking. Though it could be argued that this is due to bad writing
Too many modern themes. Forget about the woke/anti-woke gender forum debates. Here's a couple of examples to consider. The assassin faction only kills bad guys who have it coming now. The pirate/tomb raider faction returns relics to their respective people after raiding tombs, because they want to respect cultural heritage. Tevinter is the slavery capital of Thedas, and it looks like a generic shanty town (the part of it that you do see), with very few examples of the actual attrocity of slavery, save for a couple of generic kidnappings and a couple of references in events that have already happened which you never get to see
The gameplay is more like a mobile game or a discount ARPG than any form of CRPG gameplay. 3 abilities you spam for combos, same ability range on companions which you do not control, and dodge rolling for mages since tanking is almost non existant, save for some generic taunts that only work on trash mobs. And oh, your companions are immortal, so all mobs will always target you at all times. Jade Empire had better ARPG gameplay 20 years ago
This was a great opportunity to raise stakes, but the villains are Dr Evil copies with fantasy hats on, there is no sense of urgency as most people only care about their own issues even though the sky is literally falling on their heads - not just the companion NPCs mind you. This is the same for other NPCs too
There is almost no choice and consequence for anything. Not just for the purposes of available endings and state of the world, but also for your character interactions. You literally only have the option to be nice, snarky nice, and stoic nice. The only minor exception was one quest involving the first Warden, and even there, the end result is nearly identical

For context, this is the view of a player that has been playing CPGs since the era of Darksun: Wake of the Ravager, and has finished the game with every quest done. My opinion is not based on hearsay, or other peoples' opinions. And this is possibly the first Bioware game I could not even get myself to play a second time. I even finished ME: Andromeda twice. That game was inferior to all previous ME titles, but it had its own merits in several ways. This one? This is addressed to a different genre audience. And that genre has way better titles available. It is not competing with BG3, it is competing with ARPGs and action games.

The Verdict: if you want to play what may be the end chapter of the series, wait for a discount, then buy it, and be prepared for disappointment. If that is not something that interests you, do not buy it at all
 

Tozobi
5
22 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
75.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2024
Never in my life have I wanted to write a scathing review like I do on this game.
I will start with a small intro:
I am an avid rpg player as one can see easily from my profile. I love them, I love what they do, I love their variety and what most I love about them is being able to live a different life with your mind through these stories and choices.

What utterly devastates me about this game is exactly the lack of the aforementioned beauty of roleplaying games.
This game pretend to be a roleplaying game while in reality it is a poor story with thinly veiled critic of today's western cultural issues.

I will now split this review into positives and negatives,

Positive:
* Graphics - The game itself looks great as long as you do not look at the characters themselves. The scenery and exploration aspects are well crafted and it truly feels like you step in a different world. Its very nice to look at.

* Performance - I only had a single crash in nearly 80 hours of gameplay, with today's on release performance being what it is, this is worth mentioning, so respect on that.

* Scene Variety - In DA: V, you get to explore plenty of environments, the art team did a fantastic job with making them all feel unique and beautiful. It is fun to see new places and apart from Arlathan which is a bit too effect heavy they are a blast to explore and go through.

Neither:
* Combat - Combat is fun... For the first 10 hours. The problem being, this is a long game. The combat itself is done well but it just gets tiring at some point. Enemies on higher difficulties are just HP sponges. if you somehow god forbid do not have a vulnerability matching weapon, enjoy grinding at the health bar of even the lowest opponent for a good 2 minutes.

* Skill tree - I have tested only the mage skill tree. If you go like I did and do all the side content possible you will end up with a fair amount of skill points. Around 60+ I believe. Now, the skill tree is big, the problem is, its not interesting. The amount of usable abilities is fairly limited, the effects of the skill tree are nice but they are nothing to write home about, it could be smaller and more focused or as big with more interesting changes and not just +10% damage. Make it meaningful or make it smaller. It only serves the purpose of giving the player something to dump points into right now.

* Items - They do not really matter, their impact is not as important as their level. Mages get access to two weapon types,
dagger and orb or staff. One of them is more long ranged and the other short ranged. The amount of different weapons you get is big but they are just more or less skins. They have different damage values or types, they might have upgraded effects but in the end of the day they are not that interesting. Find a weapon and run with it. It matters little.

* Runes - This is something you unlock further into the game which lets you customize a certain item and thus help you combat situations better or enhance yourself in other aspects. In truth the only reason this is an okay feature is because without it going through Nightmare mode would have been an even slower slog. Because certain runes let you change your damage type it makes carrying only 1 damage type less of a hassle. Otherwise its forgettable and mostly I forgot it existed unless I really needed to speed things up.

Negative: Jesus Christ. Help me here.

* Replayability - I cannot see any reason to replay this game. 0. No point. Unless you for some reason enjoyed the story very much which I somehow doubt.
* Story - The story is just very very generic, there is nothing special about it, nothing new, nothing interesting, it is like going to see your favorite superhero movie again. You get some new faces but at the end of the day its just the same old story of good vs evil and right against wrong.

* General writing - I feel like this needs to be addressed . One of the weakest points of this game is sadly writing, and it comes into shape in all aspects of the game. From lore entries, to dialogues between companions and to the writing of content in general. This for me, is by far, the biggest sin of the game, because without good writing a roleplaying game is just not it.
Firstly its shallow, there is no nuance, there is no real decisions, you are always trapped between being nice and being nice, doing the right thing and doing the right thing but slightly to the left or to the right. Every major implication for what you do is telegraphed and explained, there is no mystery to the game, there is no "Oomph" its just so very, very, soulless.
Secondly, companions in the game act like teenagers and not like adults. They begin relationships by fighting over the smallest most stupid things and you being a parent or responsible adult have to mediate these things. Its tiring, its stupid and mostly its just sad.
Thirdly, a point that a lot of people have a problem with is interjecting real life issues into a fictional game. There is nothing inherently wrong there but it is done so bluntly, so badly that at times it feels like a fan fiction written to cater to the writers feelings and beliefs.
It highlights things like:
A. Slavery bad.
B. Letting people be themselves is good.
C. Tyranny bad.
D. Supporting friends is a must no matter what.
E. There are always just good or evil options and nothing less.
And many more shallow examples. It reeks of lameness. it has no value, no interest, its just bland, the texts feel like a chore and at some point skipping them becomes blissful. I could write an entire review only on the writing of this game and how horrendous it is but it would be pointless.

* Betrayal - At certain points in the game the game leads you to believe that there might be an actually interesting story or twist or pivot that might happen if you just hang on tight, it hints at the possibility of nuance, of having to make a truly tough decision or even, god forbid, a morally gray one. But then, it betrays you. It fails you. it lies. There are no such decisions. This was a ruse. Yes. This point is still about the writing...

* Level design - I have no idea who designed the levels themselves from a gameplay point of view, but whoever it was, I curse you, and I curse your entire bloodline. Stop, just stop putting unnecessary obstacles every 5 minutes of exploration. Yes, I get it, companions have special abilities, I don't need to use them every second, they stop being special. No, I do not want to walk on the tight narrow bridge for an entire level, yes I am looking at you pirate, beach area. Its bothersome, it slows down the pace. There is no difficulty to it because you made it this way. It just clicking forward, nothing else, this serves no bloody purpose. Either make it a challenge or don't do it so damn frequently.

* Puzzles - The original series was aimed at adults. Juding by the puzzles I can safely say this is no longer aimed at adults. I think one of my most memorable puzzles was the first puzzle in the game which you literally cannot fail because each piece of the puzzle locks itself in place the moment you get it right. THIS IS NOT A PUZZLE THIS IS JUST CLICKING BUTTONS UNTIL YOU ARE RIGHT!!

* Exploration - While the exploration itself is fun it suffers from the same issues that the level design does. It forces you to constantly come back to previous locations to "unlock" further areas. This falsly makes the game seem longer while in reality you could have probably cut the game time by half if all the areas were unlocked from the start. I do not need invisible walls blocking my progress. I do not need areas hidden behind special abilities every 2 seconds. IT DOES NOT FEEL SPECIAL IF YOU KEEP DOING IT EVERY 5 SECONDS.
If you want players to explore in order to "loot" the map, do not block their path for the sake of inflating game time. Its not fun. Its tiresome and its disrespectful to player's time.

In Conclusion:
Buy on sale or something.
 

Corgi Demolitions
932 products in account
1
29 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
83.4 hrs on record
Posted: 11 November, 2024
Product received for free

[clever writing has left the chat]

oh solas you deserved so much better
 

MIYKU
0
108 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
27.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
The story is just bad you have no freedom to be bad or good they pick it all for you a waste of money.... its just sad i was looking forward to playing this.....
 

Nemesis Alpha
0
34 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
81.5 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
I gave this game a fair shake. Did the companion quests, faction quests, misc. quests i happened upon and I have some thoughts. A lot of people are partial to the glory days of Bioware, but they're long gone. We all know how good this studio used to be, but I think we need to separate reality from the nostalgia bias we tend to give towards once great studios which have irrefutably fallen from grace.

Game play: 7/10 -Its okay. fun at first but quickly repetitive. Skill trees and items make it look wide as a river, but its as deep as a puddle. Enemy variety is a farce, and even though I played on challenging I was tempted to lower it just to get through repetitive fights faster. Fine for a 15-25 hour game, horrible for a 35-50 hour play through aiming to complete all content.

Writing: 3/10 - Bad. Too safe. Dialogue is mostly filler with the rare kernels of dialogue worthy of quotation wholly overshadowed by a sea of mediocrity and cliches.

Comapanions: 4/10 - worst bunch of the series. 1 dimensional. uncontroversial. utterly forgetful. A collection of happy go lucky do-gooders devoid of any semblance of moral ambiguity. Even the Antonio Banderas impersonator possessed by a demon is a pastry baking, coffee loving plushy.

Romance: 1/10 - don't even know why they added it to the game.

Art direction: 3/10 - a gross departure from the franchise appealing to a base who won't even play it.

World: 7/10 - Actually kind of pretty. Some good areas to discover and sift through that were some of the more redeeming aspects of the game. Faction renown is a great mechanic that I hope other games implement.

Puzzles: 1/10 - For children. don't even know why they bothered making them. They feel more like busy work to increase play time rather than something engaging and fun to solve. Treat you like you're dumber than a bag of rocks. actually kind of disrespectful and I was somewhat offended.

Story: 5/10 - a good start, a slog of a second act, and a somewhat redeeming final act. I can tell why they changed the name from Dreadwolf to Veilguard, because they completely sidelined Solas who the entire story was supposed to center on. These people dropped a ball that was gently underhanded to them. Villains lacked any moral complexity, the most mustache twirling, evil for evil's sake motivations that hang the hopes of any player who wishes to engage in morally challenging/ philosophical viewpoints.

Optimization: 10/10 - game runs great. One of the only saving graces it has. A breath of fresh air in our day and age where publishers have normalized releasing broken games. Its almost a negative, because with the lack of success this game is like to have, studios might be less inclined to bring back the old standard of releasing games in playable states.

I wanted to like this game. I did. I went over it with a fine tooth comb. It's good to know the story can rest for me, but I cannot in good conscience recommend it at this price to fellow gamers. This one is a deep sale, or a youtube video to find out how our once loved franchise ends. It is my hope that EA takes bioware out back, and puts it out of its misery (and ours). What was once an exemplar studio towering above the rest for its creativity, innovation, fearless grasp of social commentary surrounding controversial issues, has been marred into a husk capable only of churning out safe, uncontroversial, and pandering mediocrity. This bodes incredibly ill for the future release of Mass effect.
 

HodgeMuffin
1
77 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
90.0 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
I have played all of the Dragon Age games and their DLC/Expansion's. I went into this game wanting to like it despite the controversy, however, I cannot bring myself to like it and the game just constantly makes me want to play DA:2 which is arguably the worst of the bunch.

1. You've heard it before but the story writing is atrocious. Sometimes you are just thrust into ordeals that deal with your companions and given little detail while still being expected to care about the plot/companion.

2. Companions are the weakest they have been since DA:2. I can't find a single companion that isn't filled with bad dialogue and lackluster questlines.

3. Handholding is a large offender. I feel constantly bereted by the game pointing out the extremely obvious glowing item that is clearly the objective. Its worse than pawns in Dragons Dogma saying "HARPIES ARISEN" when there are 5 of them in your face.

4. The combat is okay at best but does wear on rather quickly.

5. Immersion is non-existent. I get onto Star Wars for the same thing but this game bumps it up a few notches. At no point in time should a game be used to push an agenda and by no means should a game openly say things like "Non-Binary" "They/Them" and then openly give itself over to punishment for using what many would consider appropriate terms. This is a fantasy game and when you use terms like this, it completely rips the immersion from under the audience thats actually paying and playing your game EA/Bioware.

6. I'm all for reinventing the wheel but I'm begging you: Don't use that shade of purple ever again and please fix your weird facial animation issues that have existed since Mass Effect: Andromeda. Its extremely uncanny.
 

crog832
0
75 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
12.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
I don't like this game. I gave it a chance but I couldn't connect with the story, villains, or characters. Everything felt off to me. Like the game world only exists for rook to explore and solve stupid puzzles like he is a 5 year old. Sucks cause I love Dragon Age. This is more like Toddler Age: The Sesame Street Guard
 

Irish_pancake
0
150 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
71.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Product received for free

It pains me that this game shares the name with the others. I can appreciate certain changes, like the new approach to combat (despite still feeling quite bland and unpolished), but if you throw away everything good the other games did, it just doesn't make it right.

You go from exposition dialogue, to killing a few enemies, to exposition dialogue. Nothing feels earned or organic. The dialogue feels like it is made up using AI. I'm honestly sad to see one of my favorite franchises butchered by greedy companies that care little to nothing about their talent and their players. 

Update after finishing the game:

My argument still does not change. Dragon Age has never been a pinnacle in voice direction, but by god some performances sound like the voice actor didn't want to be there (not blaming the actors, don't know what happened backstage).

There are some good story telling at certain parts, like some of the lore dump regarding the titans and such (I won't be spoiling anything here, dont worry), but most of the story still feels bare bones, and I cannot let go of the fact that the game constantly tells you what you should feel instead of showing it like if I were a toddler unnable to make thoughts or solve preschool puzzles.

In conclusion, is it a terrible, awful game? Not really. Does it butcher everything good and holy from the franchise? Absolutely. They don't even care overwriting well-established lore or forgetting important information from different factions or characters out of pure convenience, and they have the gall to use previous game characters for cheap 2-liners and present them in such a way that they feel like impersonators despite being the same voice actors... like, what the hell?

Also, the fake choice pop ups is disgusting. There is only one decision that really makes a different without counting the ending of the game... Most of the other pop ups either straight up lie to you or they oversell the consequences of your choice in astronomical levels
 

IIMadMax98II
0
59 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
81.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 November, 2024
A game that feels like it desperately wants to be a reboot and resents that previous games exist.

100%ed the game on nightmare as a warrior. Am a big fan of the previous games and the universe. Gonna quickly get the gameplay out of the way.

Do not play the game on nightmare. As is usual with AAA action games that have difficulty options, the enemies just turn into massive hp sponges that shave off massive amounts of health if they hit you. Enemy moveset is severely lacking, and you'll be fighting the same enemies for almost all of the game. Bosses tend to have the same movesets as normal grunts with one or two gimmicks added. When you have a boss that, at one point, took me 15 minutes to beat while only having three attacks, the only thing killing me is boredom.

Build diversity is there, but on warrior, it felt like one of the specializations was obviously better than the others. With enough investment, I had a build that spammed an ability that hits harder than all of the ultimates available to me, left a DOT that did 1.3k damage a tick, while also utilizing a companion's broken mechanic to constantly generate near infinite resources. Only after speccing into this did I feel like boss fight lengths were reasonable - only about 5 minutes instead of 15.

But Dragon Age has never been about the gameplay. Time to talk about the writing. There is one thing they do alright here that I hope more games adopt.

The companions actually hang out with each other and have their own life. The ones that aren't romanced will all form various romantic relationships with each other. The implementation is clunky in this game and makes Rook feel like an outsider, but I desperately want this over something like the bond systems in Trails or Persona where characters are only playersexual and don't have a dynamic with each other outside of the main story.

There are three massive problems with this game's writing that effectively killed my interest in the franchise moving forward, and I don't even think dialogue is a major one. Full spoilers ahead.

1. The setting is sanitized to hell and back. Before, a major reason for all the conflicts of the game have to do with political or cultural pressure.

In Tevinter, the most intolerant nation in the setting that openly practices slavery, you can run around as an elf without any casual racism thrown at you and the only time you see slaves are when they're serving as seats for some cartoonishly evil magisters sitting on them like an ojou-sama fetish. The Antivan Crows have been turned into Robin Hood types that, even if you assume Zevran's revolution was successful, have absolutely no mention of how they used to mind-rape children into becoming the perfect assassins.

Dalish elves are no longer racist and nobody is racist to Dalish elves anymore, despite racism being one of the main sources of tension in the setting. Elves, who in Inquisition joined Solas because they felt trapped by the world and had no other way out, have been retconned out and Solas is now a lone actor. Elves who used to worship Elven Gods as a means of escape now fully agree with the rest of the world that the revived elven gods are evil and must be stopped without question. Only one companion even stops to ask about their species identity because of these gods, and it doesn't go nearly far enough.

There are a few lines here and there that try to bring in some of that gray area back, but they're very few and far between. For instance, a Shadow Dragon Elf Rook will mention that after they were adopted by a Tevinter family, they had to be treated as a servant when on a family outing. Good flavor, but it's one line in a 45 hour game.

Basically, the writers seem obsessively afraid of depicting anybody (besides Solas) who isn't the VILLAIN as doing anything bad. Go to a new location, look for the character being cartoonishly hostile and uncooperative towards you, and congrats, you've found the main villain of that particular arc. The flavor of the world is completely scrubbed in favor of a bland fantasy.

2. The writers go out of their way to kill almost all of the settings in the previous entries in a single missive at the end of the game. This is not up for interpretation. The missive informs you that Kirkwall is blighted, pretty much all of Ferelden is blighted, Orzammar is silent but assume blighted, and Orlais is on the very brink. None of the choices you made to shape Thedas in the previous games mattered.

3. It was actually a magic Illuminati the whole time. Instead of actually escalating the stakes in a smart way that takes some thought to set up, they just went the blizzard route of going "BUT WAIT. IT WAS A BIGGER EVIL THE WHOLE TIME". They did it with "IT WAS ALL THE ANCIENT ELVEN GODS", but this time, they f*cked the entire past entries franchise along with the future ones.

Instead of Loghain's actions in DAO being a result of some mix of justifiable grievance against the Wardens and various political pressures, it was because of the Illuminati. Instead of Meredith being driven insane by religious dogma, a destructive desire to do good, and seeing mages go crazy one too many times, it was the Illuminati. Corypheus is now even more of a dweeb who got manipulated the whole time on top of just being bad at everything.

All of this points to, at best, a vision for the franchise that is at odds with everything in the past, and at worst, demonstrates a lack of talent to be able to craft anything other than a pure black-and-white story, a childish way of approaching villains, and a resentment to the previous entries for creating the setting they're using and actively trying to change it.

I genuinely cannot see a future in this franchise that doesn't involve the most "gray" character in the story waxing long poetics about how it's all for the greater good or how it all must be done. Villains will no longer be born because of the setting they find themselves in and personal motivations, it will be because they're caps lock EVIL. Factions that do morally wrong things will never do anything good in their lives, and the opposite goes for good factions.

One more thing I want to ramble about. Taash. Poor Taash. It feels like the writers managed to cram every single stereotype the anti-woke dipsh*ts have about "woke" writing and various LGBTQ communities into a single character to justify all their dumb hate and for whatever good intentions they clearly had, their extremely poor handling of Taash has instead f*cked the discussion online around this subject even more. Good job, Bioware.

Taash is extremely emotional, hypocritical about respecting people's identities, and there is never a single option to call them out on it so they can maybe mature. They're always treated as if they're in the right even if they're clearly not. People will make dramatic gestures to conform to their needs about identity while they blatantly disregard other people's wishes about their identity.

The dumb part is their arc is identified purely by their gender identity even though the game has set up another conflict.. Their cultural identity? You just tell them to embrace the Qun or Rivain. It is about as ludicrous as telling a Korean-American to "be more Korean". It is, in fact, doing what their main arc said not to do - telling them to just fit into a binary.

And the kicker is that their journey to discover their identity isn't even well handled. It happens entirely off screen with some nameless people. Here's a free idea for you, Bioware. Qunari as a culture assign gender based on role and call "trans" people Aqun-Athlok. Use the concept properly. Have their mom try to raise them as female, then raising them as an Aqun-Athlok maleafter realizing they fight (a masculine role in Qunari culture) and focus on the angst about how they don't feel right either way instead of just *off-screening the entire journey*. Some free advice from some stupid cis guy.
 

Klinestife
1,155 products in account
0
85 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
14.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2024
I can't get through it. Everything but the graphics and performance are horrible. Please don't give them your money - it's the only way they'll get the message that they should never again destroy a great and successful series by putting out crap like this that seems like it was designed and written by a bunch of children.
 

Rim
0
101 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
6.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
It's an interesting game, I would even say it's good, if it weren't a Dragon Age game. This is going to be long-winded, but I'm honestly kind of sad.

Long negative rant

This is another severe degradation of what made Dragon Age Origins amazing. I went into this game knowing that I wasn't going to get the same type of game as Origins, but I was hopeful for a similar dark and immersive feeling world that would deliver on lore that I love. That isn't what this is at all. This is more Mass Effect Andromeda: Dragon Age.

It has none of the tone of the original game. You go through a village ravaged by the Blight and it looks visually awesome; I found myself wishing for a remaster of Origins just so I could see the Deep Roads sequence with this art style. In Origins however when you're going through bleak environs, the tone is bleak, the conversations are bleak, and it feels ominous. In Veilguard you may as well be walking through someone's house to get a shirt. The companions don't give a ♥♥♥♥ at all, the PC has so little reaction it's crazy. It could have been because my PC was a Warden and she'd blight seen it before, but this is supposed to be Blight and Darkspawn 2.0, so it is for sure novel to the PC regardless of background.

Player Character's entire being is based off of the event in the background you chose

In the first 4 hours of the game they tell me my backstory word for word so many times I was already bored of hearing it. Yes, I disobeyed orders and saved lives and the higher ups were mad, got it. Every time they want to reference the player character they just tell you this same backstory again, as if your character's whole identity is this one singular event. To be fair, as far as the game is concerned, it is the only thing interesting about the PC that we are told.

I understand that the devs can't give huge elaborate backstories to every character I make, but repeating this same bit so much so early in the game feels like they think this story is enough to compensate for us knowing nothing else about this Thorne (Grey Warden last name) that we are playing. Even Dragon Age 2 gave us a family history and siblings to talk to.

This is still the co-op looter they were making before Anthem failed

The game is so clearly built on the bones of the co-op looter game it was before Anthem failed that it feels like I am still doing those missions and getting that same lackluster loot in a single player game.

1. Go from the hub through a mirror into a dungeon-lite
2. Clear trash for 10 minutes
3. Kill boss
4. Loot chest that appears after killing the boss for loot that is generic and usually just upgrade fodder for a duplicate item you have.

This is not a progression system worthy of this series, or any single player game. That is the game play loop of a game that you mute, turn music on, and brainlessly go through with your friends in Discord.

Some positivity

I actually thoroughly enjoy the art style. I loved the areas I saw and they looked properly epic and magical, though it all feels like a backdrop for meaningless dungeon-lite runs.

The combat is enjoyable to me. I don't hate that Bioware was trying to shake things up in the combat department with this one, and I think they did a pretty decent job overall.

Closing

Playing the game really just makes me sad that they completely gave up on what a lot of us fell in love with about this franchise. I know that my feelings aren't representative of the whole of the Dragon Age fanbase at that's fine, I'm not going to ♥♥♥♥ on anyone for liking this game, but it really just makes me too sad to play as someone that was enthralled by Origins. Not too say I won't ever finish it, but I don't feel the need to now at all.
 

SquirrelTeamSix
239 products in account
0
66 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 11

Not Recommended
17.2 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
It's so bad I'm streaming it.
https://youtube.com/live/8diNw97O3PM?feature=share
 

Kibs
1,526 products in account
0
175 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
54.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
the writing is a joke , like a teenage movie , dragon age is dead
 

OPkaSUC
2
75 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Product refunded

Steam deck verified is a joke. It played like absolute doodoo.
 

Hunched_Loaff
0
43 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2024
This isn't a negative review claiming the game is bad, this is a non-recommendation for those who hold what the series is in high regard. I'm sure if you're a fan of the gameplay style or just want some adventurous tale with a varied cast and decisions to make, it's a fine game. If you're someone who either has no experience with Dragon Age as a series and will just shrug away any references and returning characters, or if you simply want to be in the world again with the concepts and lore it has, it's a game to pick up. Either the story being told upfront will probably be something to interest you, or the gameplay might keep you enough to gain eventual interest, and that's perfectly fine and I don't blame you for being positive towards the game.

However, if you're someone like me that genuinely cares about the choices and personalities of the characters and the world you made, and hold this series in the deepest parts of your heart, I can't recommend it in the slightest. The handling of characters and previous choices is just blatantly uncaring with contradictions and retcons all over. They did not omit everything that would be impacted by non-included previous choices like was claimed. Every action you took not part of those 3 they decided to include, is treated as if it didn't even happen, and they brought in those closest impacted by the omitted choices and changed them to account for said choices not existing, with characters like Morrigan experiencing consistent memory loss alongside her character traits you as a player help build up being completely ignored. Not to mention the genuine end of game retcon that made these characters with depth and complexity the community would discuss for years, be bogged down into simply some greater force manipulation, which frankly is the greatest insult of all to someone who had themselves defined by this series, and I can't willingly get myself to play any more knowing all of this has been done to something so crucial to me as a person.

This game was made with the intention of starting over with everything gone save the name, and it's very clear the new and less involved players are the current aim. I will not claim this to be a wrong decision, if the story I cared about is over, that's fine. I had what I connected with so deeply, I can accept that it's someone else's turn. I just believe that the handling of this change over was done at the clear expense of those who waited these 10 years and had something to believe was coming. If they stated this sooner I would've accepted my losses and moved on, but all hype and willingness was on the table until those last few months, and if you've been waiting for the same as I was, I apologise but it's not here and it never will be.

The game is a shun and erasure of everything I held close, the greatest betrayal and lie I've experienced, but I know I'm not anyone else but myself, opinions and experience differ, the game has a sweeping review field of 80-90s, it's like that for a reason, those players have found something good I'm sure, I just can't recommend this to people who saw this series the same way I did.
 

sbubthesub
1
93 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
22.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
11 hours of game-play as of writing this.
11 hours I'll never get back.
Lemmie holla at ya, LGBTQ+? Good for em, all the love and support, and I WANT to see it, see it like we did in Inquisition, where it wasn't thrown in our face.
But destroying lore to fit your narrative? HELL NO
Antivan Crows forgiving a member? The same people who run a prison for and I quote "Fun and torture".... Sure...
Grey Wardens being swayed by nobility? HAVE YOU EVEN READ THE LORE?

This game feels like the team didn't even have a single clue about the background or lore, or if they did it was shallow, shallower then this games dialogue.

Nahh, this ain't it. Combat is hella boring.
The writing.... I have never once before felt actually physically sick from cringe.

Honestly, I would only ever recommend this game to those who want to see a conclusion to Solas's story.

Rating : 4/10
Graphics : 10/10 = Stunning
Writing : 2/10 = The reason I give 2 and not 0 is because there are SOME good lines, mostly from Solas and Varric)
Combat : 4/10 = It's like they copied League of Legends and God of War, but decided to make it worse.
Character Design : 4/10 = Why are the heads so big, and why do Qunari look like that?
Character Customisation : 5/10 = You're given two choices, you go ethnic(And VERY racist) or Ugly.
Sound Design : 6/10 = Meh, it's alright, but there are no real moments when the music awed me.
Level Design : 3/10 = It's linear, wanna explore? To bad. This isn't open world.
Companions : 3/10 = I hate them all, they are obnoxiously cringy, only reason this gets a three is cause of Harding.
Puzzles : 0/10 = This hurt me the most, I love puzzles, these aren't even challenging, just tedious.
Choices : 4/10 = Remember back when your actions use to have consequences? No? Well neither does this game.

Conclusion?
I recommend playing inquisition with mods. Or wait until more mods are released for this game, let the community fix the developers mistakes. The game is a golden Nug, shiny and so damn pretty, but beneath it all? It's just another pig.

Edit : Will I be finishing this game? Sadly, yes. I want to see how this story ends.
 

Saddy Daddy
0
41 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
63.6 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
The following review contains significant spoilers. Avoid reading if you wish to experience the game for some reason

''If this is all just the maker winding us up, I hope there's a damn good punch line coming.''
Except it does not. The makers of The Veilguard messed it up big time up to a point where we are left to scratch the leftovers to find something meaningful remaining.

Gotta admit that I've never been a massive DA fan so I can't share the community's collective heartbreak equally. Even though Inquisition bored the ♥♥♥♥ out of me I get why people is so upset as I always was the ME guy I now have my share of worry though they already ♥♥♥♥♥♥ it up once (the chilling fact that Andromeda was far more true to its nature than DAV is). I wonder what parts of this game are the recyled stuff from the rebooted pitches.

Veilguard apparently was left to suffer when it got rebooted (at least) twice and its initial title changed from Dreadwolf to Veilguard. Developers pointed out the game not being about Solas as the reason for the name change. Except, it begins with Solas, ends with Solas and is absolutely about ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ Solas. Bioware not only did lose a way cooler title but they lost a lifetime opportunity to craft Solas into being far more complex and unique character. Two elven gods hungry for power? Holy ♥♥♥♥. How poignant is that! But the game still is about Solas you ♥♥♥ Bioware. If not why are we going through 6 of Solas biggest regrets and somehow each one of them has their own seperate achievements? The game should have focused on Solas far more as he's only the true redeemable character out of the whole cast and when the redemption comes it's barely fullfilling as he has almost no screentime besides your banters with him in the Fade and some of his flashbacks. It's also a massive missed opportunity in which Solas could convince/coerce Rook into destroying the veil.

And since it's impossible to discuss the Veilguard within the limitations of steam review's character limits please allow me to go over why DAV sucks colossally with bulletpoints:

a) Bioware pulled a Sixth Sense on Varric and I hated it. Should have guessed it, bastard took a lot of naps.

b) Failed a chance to unite HoF and the Warden with the Inquisitor and Rook. Make no mistake, DAV is absolutely the final game in this quadrilogy.

b) The Inquisitor casually sends you a letter to let you know the south has fallen to the Blight. Words cannot describe how messed up that is (given all the experience of both former protagonists), but I was like, ‘yeah, whatever.’ If Bioware does not care enough to extend the story to the south and show how they are holding up, conveying it only through missives (which I discovered much later on), then why should I care?

c) The secret ending (which requires you to collect three symbols foreshadowing the ending, the stupidest idea ever) is such ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ that it must have been made as an effort to distinguish this saga from the upcoming one. Again, words cannot describe how messed up it is. Secret society-type organizations/factions work better in games like Deus Ex for a reason. Reducing Loghain, a master strategist and arguably still the best antagonist in the franchise, to merely being ‘whispered’ is absurd.

d) Companions grow on you, but in and out of gameplay, none of them make a real difference. Oftentimes—besides perhaps the early game—I was strong enough to breeze through enemies by stacking up burning ailments. Companions were ultimately just there to occasionally ‘detonate’ matched skills. To be fair, DAV loses the sweet spot of DAO in mixing up real-time action and strategy, presenting itself more as a generic action-adventure game where most of the enemies have similar attack patterns and you don’t even need to think about exploiting their weaknesses.

e) Companions are also awfully polite, and even Emmrich doesn’t shine enough. There are no real pushbacks, and the dialogue wheel feel like a callback to FO4, making you shake with PTSD. The way the dialogue options are presented often feels like a cover-up for poorly written content. Highlighting each option with obvious indicators and refusing to let you play a morally ambiguous character or be a straight-up jerk is distasteful. You are supportive, understanding, hilarious... Yeah, everyone likes that type of person, right? I wish I had a friend like that, but I am also playing a quasi-blank slate character, so why can’t I fantasize about being a jerk?

f) Banters are often scripted scenes (such as the one with Taash and Emmrich) in which they tried to recreate ME2 but ultimately failed, especially because you can’t engage in nuanced conversations. Taash’s whole schtick is about being torn between two cultures and gender identity, which is a philosophy in and of itself. I like angst characters, and Taash is a My Chemical Romance level of angst, but they are underdeveloped and underdelivered. It’s not solely about using modern terms in a pseudo-medieval setting either (although I did get the impression that was a mission statement). It’s how Bioware cues to it every single time. Not giving Taash a solid reason to antagonize people naturally portrays them as hypocritical. Bioware should have known better. I do use a language where pronouns are irrelevant, and even in English, it’s possible (though it may come off as unnatural) to dodge pronouns and just use names. Ffs.

g) I do like the art direction in the game, and it does look fancy (I often felt like I was playing Fable), but it’s not the best fit for a franchise known for its gritty and mature tone. This tonal shift does not serve the game well and seems like a desperate attempt to distinguish the game from its predecessors. Yeah, this is a soft reboot after all.
PS: There are a few F-bombs you could count on one hand and not even partial nudity in an M-rated game.

h) The forced companion death is debatable, but Bioware is known for doing that, so I’ll give it a pass. I liked Davrin (and my favorite female counterpart was Neve, who was also my romance interest) as he was calm, sound-minded, and a grounded character among a bunch of nutjobs, and I let him sacrifice himself. Ngl, it didn’t strike me as powerful, but Harding and Davrin were indeed the best options for that role (if I’m not mistaken, Davrin’s writer should be also Gallus').

i) They tried to recreate the suicide mission but didn’t change the formula at all. Instead of assigning roles to companions at the beginning of the two final mission, perhaps we should have done that in a multilayered endgame questline with real payoffs. Perhaps we should have gone solo (or at best with one companion) and assigned all the others to specific roles. It’s quite easy to figure out things in DAV, as once again, it boils down to whether your companions are loyal or not.

j) Gearing is quite boring and feels like a remnant of an old pitch. Hunting chests for duplicates to increase rarity is not intuitive, but overall, I didn’t mind the exploration. In a way, it’s better than DAI’s MMO wannabe aspects.

k) Old companions are in positions of power, but we barely know how or why. You can give a title to Dorian, but I couldn’t say why, other than the fact he was once a cool character. Inquisitor’s inclusion is excellent but far limited.

i) Do yourself a favor and consider this a one-and-done type of game. There’s no NG+, no high degree of freedom, and the pacing is all over the place, with Bioware cramming all the companion and faction quests into the late-mid and late game. Going over all of them again would be a pain, especially knowing how limited your choices are.

I could go on and on, but what's the point, really? DA has become a franchise with four distinct games. Just when you think it’s finally found its footing, it ends up upsetting some of its fans. Sure, that happens with franchises that survived long enough, but to this degree? It feels like a borderline insult.

★★★☆☆
 

THE RTN
4,906 products in account
0
180 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Nothing about this game is worth your money.

The lore has been flattened and the writing is one dimensional. You will be treated like a moron with a 2 second attention span by the repetitive dialogue. You cannot talk to your companions outside of dialogue cutscenes, which is an especially baffling choice because the facial animations and lipsync leave a lot to be desired.

Three choices from Inquisition alone make it into the game. None of your choices from the entirety of Origins, 2, and the rest of Inquisition are touched upon, which feels like a slap in the face. There's some borderline character assassination as well;  at least keep them in character.

Speaking of character, Rook doesn't have any. You might chose all the most "aggressive" dialogue choices, but there's so much scripted dialogue which you don't have a say in that turns Rook soft and bland like a mushy porridge.
I can't and won't speak for the game after the 7 hour mark because I will not be playing it any further. If you want to know how the rest of the story goes, just watch spoilers on youtube like I did. I can't imagine how angry I would have been having played through the entire slog of a game just to have it end the way it did.

Here's hoping I can somehow score a refund ✌️
 

MUD DAUBER UNLIMITED
3
96 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
23.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
The graphics are great the world looks amazing!
Now lets go to everything else that's wrong with the game, which is everything else. Game doesn't feel like a dragon age game, to cartoonish. Especially when compared to older dragon age games. dialogue is horrible and plain and I found myself skipping over 90% of it. The combat is boring and repetitive and way to easy even on higher difficulties. Not giving party members hp is stupid and just takes away from the challenge. Like the choice mechanics and wish more games had the level this game does.
Finally the direction this game and company is taking is something I personally just cant get behind. After this mess we as gamers should be worried about the future with mass effect
 

SBogus99
0
110 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
plot is drivel where it tried to show how badass and strong Solas was, only to put him to the side and shove new antagonists down our throat. the whole story is plainly linear and the gameplay is extremely self-centered, where most of it is barebones and strips what the older Dragon Age titles were known for. it has effectively become an arcade game of "click click, dodge, click click, dodge" and companion party tactics are just abilities that you yourself activate mid fight. you dont even really need to pause the combat anymore (aside from the occasional companion ability), since the enemy are a lot more telegraphed and simple than the earlier Dragon Ages had.

But my absolute biggest annoyance by far during the game is the camera moving ON ITS OWN, just to be more "cinematic". i cannot emphasise how many times i either fell off the map or moved the complete wrong direction because of it. why cant things just be player controlled?
 

SingingEmu
1,291 products in account
0
47 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
81.1 hrs on record
Posted: 11 November, 2024
I really wanted to like this game but with each hour played I became more and more annoyed and disappointed with it. If you're a fan of the series and loved the deep world and story, you most likely will not like it either. I think newcomers who start with this game will probably like it... And some old casual fans, who really only cared about fighting a few monsters and romancing someone hot, will like it too.
This game is like Hogwarts Legacy with a Dragon Age skin applied. And while I liked Hogwarts Legacy it's not what I expect from franchise like Dragon Age.

What I liked in this game:
Environtments - every zone you visit is beatuifully crafted with care. Really liked them. Especially the Necropolis.
Some story moments - overall I didn't really like the story, but when it was good, it was really good.
Character creator - there are a few thing weirdly limited that I don't understand. But you can make some good looking faces. Would've loved if there were more presets though.
If you pick up the same item you already own, it upgrades the old one - eliminates inventory clutter.
Transmogrification - if you don't like the way your gear looks, you can just change its appearance to a different one.
Stabillity and Performance - only one crash during 81 hours I spent in this game. And the crash I may have caused myself by mistake.
You can do all achievements on first playthrough.
Warden Tomasz - The Gigachad of Weisshaupt.

What I didn't like:
No choices transfer from older games - do I have to say more? The world state you created since Origins is now gone and forgotten. Remember how they introduced The Keep to help everyone with creating custom world states for future games? Screw that I guess. Here are your 3 choices from Inquisition and one of them may not have any reflection on the story. Not to mention that during the story  It's just sad.
Tone of the game - really... what happened here? Everyone's so jolly and happy. Old elven gods are here to destroy the world and I wouldn't be surprised if an NPC I speak with would suddenly start dancing and singing about how life is good. Nobody acts like they are really in this world.
Dialogues - whatever you choose will not change the outcome of the conversation. Sometimes you talk like a bad therapist to a toddler. When you talk to your companions you can only offer support and words of encouragement. You can't tell them to buzz off, or challenge them on worldviews and ideology. It's the first time I dislike my own character because I could not choose anything meaningful to say.
Combat - It's really not that bad and can be fun BUT it gets old and annoying. By the end of the game I just turned down the difficulty to one-shot enemies and be done with it. Also it feels like game expects you to play melee class. Even as a mage it feels better to play the dagger/orb combo. I wanted to play exclusively with a staff. Most of the fight was me running away from enemies to find a few seconds of break to replenish my mana or do a few normal attacks.
Companions - I liked Harding because I liked her in Inquisition. Emmrich is okay and ending to his personal quest was good (at least the version I chose). Lucanis' quest feels unifinished and I forgot he's . His quests seem to forget about it too and there isn't much resolution to it. Taash is annoying and disrespectful to other people, while expecting respect from others. Davrin has a baby gryphon and that's all. I thought Bellara would be worse but actually wasn't that bad. Kinda like a discount Merril from DA2. Neve... I don't really remember much about her.
Too many quests that want you to go somewhere and just talk for 5 seconds.
Lack of depth in the world - there used to be so many nuances in this world. Now any edge or nuance is gone. Sanitized. It seems like the devs were afraid of offending people with a fictional world. Remember when Antivan Crows used to buy slave children and train them to be assassins? Remember how they executed their own members for failing a contract? Well now they're just a group of stylish Italian mobsters. Every faction was gutted like that.
Braindead puzzles - pick up this crystal and put it on a dingus three meters away. At some point the crystal was right next to the dingus.
No replayability - I finished this game once and it feels like I experienced everything it has to offer. Choices are few and don't really change much about the story. You can't be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ to anyone so "evil" playthrough is out of the picture. And playing another class is simply not worth it to me.

I should've bought something else... If you're curious get this game on a discount and it may give you a couple of hours of fun.
 

Setanel
514 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 7

Not Recommended
156.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
/pros:
- Technically very impressive: doesn't use much VRAM maxed out, great visuals/fx and I had zero bugs. Frostbite engine looks and feels better than ever.
- Great ending, but not enough to suffer through the whole game for the last hour.

/cons:
- The most PG-13 version of Dragon Age imaginable.
- Abysmal writing, very reminiscent of Mass Effect: Andromeda and Anthem, choked to the brim with pointless family-friendly cringe-inducing quirky dialogue that slogs for 100+ hours with zero substance.
- The skill trees and how they're structured will be remembered as the worst I've ever seen in any single-player RPG. Unlimited respecs can't save this abomination.
- Combat feels very polished and fun at first, until it becomes insanely repetitive and mundane once you understand the combat loop.
- Replacing the series' prominent bloody dark-fantasy aesthetic for a vibrant cartoonish art direction. What could go wrong.
- No idea if they also lost the composers of the first 3 games but sadly this doesn't hold a candle to its predecessors either... painfully forgettable OST.
 

Cypher
351 products in account
4
73 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
13.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
Generally okish game. But it is more akin to God of War then Dragon Age previous entries. I think it is better to wait for sale because in my eyes it is not worthy of the launch price.
Positives:
- Nice graphics
- Okey combat (action oriented no strategy here)
Negatives:
- Art style (does not fit the original universe)
- Story and writing (generic story not really interesting and writing is just plain bad)
- UI and UX (you want to immerse into game but can not because of constant pop ups, etc)
- Music (no memorable music, just generic fantasy ambient)
- Dialoge and choices (no choice to be made, you are on a linear journey you can not change)
For Dragon Age fans: Dragon age did not return to form with this one, a lot of previous lore is discarded and what is new is not that good. This is just a mediocore action oriented fantasy game. Not great not terrible, clearly a dissapointment.
 

LordW
0
101 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
29.3 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
The dialogue is the worst I've seen in a AAA game. It's just cringe after cringe. I can't get beyond it. The gameplay is so easy too. It's as if they made a dragonage game for 10 year olds.
 

agamemnon
0
98 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
44.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Another classic CRPG by Bioware - actually no

First off - if you haven't got it go and get Baldurs gate 3 its a 100 times better than this game.

This is not a RPG this is simply an action game. The choices to building up the character are largely pointless. You simply chose between a 10% damage buff of different types. The combat is just mashing dodge and light attack till your ability timer refreshes and then repeating. While you can spend 2 hours building the character appereance there is nothing to build the character back story other than a simple card for which organisation took you in. I still don't know why everyone calls the character Rook.,

The "meaningful choices" so far have been meaningless. I have not made a single choice that mattered. The famous bioware dialog wheel is also pointless. 3 choices - Stoic, funny, agreeable. Only problem is I only know the option is this because of the icon next to it.

The grim dark fantasy setting is all but lost. Yes there are piles of bodies lying about and people corrupted by the blight but these people were dead before you arrived or just nameless NPCs so who cares. The story is by and large lost on me I just don't care as I jump from zone to zone and follow a marker around. Nothing I say or do seems to matter in the slightest as the story just plays out.

Companions now work as pets. They have limitless hit points, and do next to no damage. They are really your only source of healing. However as they are so pointless nearly every enemy ignores them and just runs for the main character. They might as well just be floating orbs that heal you from time to time.
 

Dazur Dar
0
27 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
69.9 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2024
On the plus side, parts of this game are very pretty on max settings with raytracing. I got pretty distracted by the hair and environments in the game. Also, I had virtually no bugs. Which is odd these days. And, it had a really decent ending that wrapped up Inquisition's story. Unfortunately, that's about all of the positives that I can think of. It's the worst Dragon Age game, period.

The illusion of choice and consequence. I love games that have meaningful decisions. Pathfinder: Wrath of the Righteous being my favourite. This game has you make 2 or 3 "big" decisions. Okay, so this is going to change the game in some big way, right? Uhh... no. I didn't realise how on rails this game was until I started up a second playthrough. Even these couple of so called "Major" events really don't impact anything other than some scenery and companion access. Companions choices have little to no impact on the game itself. And, that's pretty much all you do. Companion quests.

The game seems to have completely forgotten it's roots. There is no dark fantasy elements to it. Everything is spelled out to you, like you're a 3rd grader(literally, it's laughable). It simply has no maturity. No longer are darkspawn made through Broodmothers. Dwarves that have been captured and converted into disgusting breeding machines, They just come from these glowy pools on the ground. If you pop the glowy zit next to it, they stop coming. Cool. Don't worry though, Desire demons and the like are still gone with no explanation so no one gets uncomfortable down there... That seems to be the thing that this game tries hardest to do. Not make anyone uncomfortable. It plays things unbelievably safe. It was extremely disappointing.

After getting past the environments and hair, I started to notice the other visuals that were sticking out to me. It nearly all looks like Toy Story goes to Vegas. Everything is flashy. All of the attacks are like you just won some jackpot. In the end, this is just there to distract you from how boring and meaningless this game actually is.

The companion conversations are so pointless you'll dread going back to the lighthouse and being forced to talk to them. There's virtually no drama between any of them. The second you think something interesting is going to happen between two of them, it's immediately resolved and they hug it out. On the combat side. Your companion's are invincible and do nothing other than queue up your higher damage abilities for you. All of their skills have a single cooldown timer. So you can only use one of their skills every 30 seconds or so. And, them, by themselves, do very little damage. To put this in perspective. Neve at max level and gear had a skill called blizzard. Which does 79 damage per second. My character was outputting around 2-3000 dps with his basic staff attacks at that point. Why the hell would I ever use that skill? They could have made all of these unusable abilities automatically fire on their own cooldowns. But, nope. Simply not point in using them. The combat ends up being so generic and mindless that you'll want to blow your brains out after a few hours. And, it doesn't change. No matter what class you play, It's all effectively the same. It'll feel different for a minute or two. Then you'll realise that you've played this before.

Crafting is insanely downgraded. Spend resources to increase your damage by .5%. Boy, that was noticeable. Nevermind all of the crate smashing you do to get said resources. This feels less like a Dragon Age game and more like Crate-Smashing Simulator 2024. How the hell did this series get here? It's a reboot of the series for 8 year-olds. That may be too generous. 5 year olds.

I could go on, but at this point, why bother? I'm never reinstalling this vapid, pointless, button smasher again.
 

Drask
0
91 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
244.1 hrs on record
Posted: 13 November, 2024
Unfortunately I can't recommend this game.
Maybe as a standalone IP it would be pretty decent but as an instalment for dragon age it just guts the good of the franchise and turns it into cringe.
My understanding all the old writers of the serie by now quit and a new fresher probably younger and inexperienced writers took over and the dark medieval fantasy setting turned into a power fantasy immature very family friendly narrative. Sure the world's state is mature and dark, but almost every interaction and social aspect feels like written for very young audience with continuously reminding the player about the current plot and goal. After you keep hearing in the first 3 hours the same one sentence over and over it gets exhausting. I get it that this is what happened and need to do something about it but I also have my quest journal to check if I would really need to be reminded.

What made the serie great that I always had my option to play as a great hero or a major pain in the ass with consequences and differences in choices and their outcomes. This was fully stripped from the game, my Rook unable to be in disagreement, I can't make my choices freely I am heavily forced to be supportive in matters which I feel ways too related to irl politics running down instead choices and understanding of Thedas the world I trying to immerse myself with.

I love some good representation in games, I do. This is not the game for that. Moreso it is hurtful and more damaging then ever to the LGBT community, it enforcing one person's ideals and observation on a very sensitive topic (unfortunately the angry teenager who is loud and can't be reasoned with from the tone of the writing) and ignores everyone else. I felt crynge and major discomfort and disgust in many points with this. Specifically want to mention a moment between Taash and their mother who tried to understand and reason to understand her child on a way I know many LGBT person would have loved if their parents would react like that. Instead Taash continuously attack and defy their mother like if two different people wrote the conversation between the characters and neither of them discussed what the other one wrote.

What kept me going was the lore addition. This was my absolute favourite franchise from 2009. I had 100% achievements on all 3 instalments through the years even if my original DAO achis got lost after the phpbb forum turned into origins app. I have lot of lore books on my shelves of Thedas and so, I love the world, I was and is invested in the setting and possible backgrounds, secrets and mysteries. This is not the dragon age I played, this is not that dark fantasy I immersed with and sat hours thinking how I want to approach to solve its world's issues and problems.
This is... ways 'too modern' and 'politically involved and touched' with disrespect towards people its trying to represent.

I don't even want to go into how much known characters feels gutted and twisted and maturely downgraded from older games. That is another can of worms to open.

I only hope somehow they can salvage this. DMC did it, there is enough lore foundation for a better come back, but this in this shape and form is a no from me. The much I would love to 'love' it.
 

Swevenfoxドリーミー狐
856 products in account
0
81 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
21.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
I was veryyyyy cautiously optimistic about Veilguard, being a dragon age fan since origins, and really getting into it in 2.

After 20 hours, there are some things that pleasantly surprised me, and some not so pleasant. But in the end, I’m compelled to give the thumbs down.

Wasn’t a fan of the art style I saw in trailers, and still not really my thing, but the game as a whole is quite beautiful and everything synergizes well, besides the characters looking cartoonish. The hair animations are particularly impressive.

Combat is definitely interesting and mostly fun.

Writing and voice acting are abysmal. Painful far too often. It feels extremely childish, like I’m watching a live action anime. Cringey at best. I found myself impatient for conversations to end, there’s no weight or feeling of substance to your interactions. It’s all so cookie cutter and uninteresting. That’s saying something for me, as historically conversations were some of my favorite parts of previous games.

The lack of freedom of choice was a very big problem I had. There really is no exploration. It’s go from mission, to uninteresting conversation, to mission etc. etc. You are going in a straight line the entire time.

The gear you acquire has been extremely cut back (armor, helmet, 2 weapons, and some buff trinkets that only appear in inventory)

The way you acquire gear is a lazily placed chest, at regular intervals, and of course at the end of every mission there’s a boss fight where a chest just appears after you beat it.

Overall, I really wanted to like this game, but man, I just found it tepid, monotonous and uninteresting.

In this case, they threw the baby out with the bathwater.
 

SatanSmash
0
125 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
89.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
RPG has become too big a term with too many defining games within the broad genre. As such, this game can be called an RPG but not one that is a continuation of the Dragon Age formula.

If you're a fan of modern Assassin's Creed, God of War, Hogwarts etc: then this would be an RPG for you.
But if you're a fan of the old Dragon Age, Mass Effect or real 'choices-matter' consequences, then I would advise to stay away.

Flashy graphics do much to carry the game, but it is more Action than it is 'Dragon-Age'
 

xensae
147 products in account
0
41 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
64.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 February
Lemme start this review by saying I played Inquisition but not the previous two games. I'm not really invested in the lore of Dragon Age. I'll also say I played this game start to finish (roughly 60+ hrs) right after completing Inquisition so I'm doing a lot of comparing.

- Character Creation: A
I had massive control over my character's looks (once I got used to the slider system). And let's face it, the hair animation was amazing. However, all the character models (mine, NPCs, and Companions) suffered from a lack of texture (and maybe mouth variation?) that could have truly brought them to life rather than leaving them feeling like copy+pastes of each other.

- Graphics A
Visually a very stunning and great game.

- Combat: A-
It was a vast improvement on DAI with more a more dynamic system that required some amount of skill. It gets a minus because I couldn't take a break from my own character's class to play a companions class like you could in DAI.

- UI: B
The user interface was fine. I did miss having a quick button to check my map (I get lost a lot), rather than having to scroll through tabs. But otherwise, I appreciated not having to sort through my inventory or my companion's inventories to find the items I wanted to keep. Or spend FOREVER in the crafting windows like in DAI. They also fixed things from DAI like the constants need to spam the "scan area" button (by getting rid of it entirely) and the slow "pick up items" mechanics in DAI. You can also sprint and jump in this game which was a vast improvement.

- Main Story: B-
The main story was fine. I thought some of the cinematic scenes were well done and built to something heroic or drew me into the situation. However, it was undercut by the rest of the story (see below) and SO. MANY. MISSED. OPPORTUNITIES. to make me care or feel the stakes at hand (I definitely think this game could have benefited from the "we're not coming back from this" story in Mass Effect 2 with its crazy cast of characters).

- RPG: C
Let's be real this game is NOT an open-world RPG like DAI was. Contained maps that offered little to no exploration with so many "locked" doors that needed progressed companions or main story to open (vs. walking into areas you were WOEFULLY unprepared to be in and dying a few times before deciding to come back later - or persevering and defeating a monster you definitely shouldn't have!). I wouldn't have minded that so much if my character had felt less pigeon-holed the whole game (see below).

- Character Choices: C
Again, this felt less like an RPG with choices that mattered, and more like a contained story line with a pre-written Rook. The wheel of responses in conversations didn't allow for a dark or morally grey Rook. Rather, I was stuck being constantly optimistic and jokey for most of the game despite my chosen responses. Again, totally fine, if this game wasn't advertised as an RPG. Additionally, the major choices I had to make throughout the game were often binary. And I didn't see a whole lot of consequences for them (or the consequences I did get, I, again, didn't care about because this game did so little to make me care about the people and places I encountered).

- Music: C-
I can honestly say the music in this game was terrible. Some of the "final boss" music was jarring and did more to distract from my supposed heroics than add to it.

- Overall writing: F
From the notes you find in game to the NPC's to the Companions: all were severely lackluster. Not only did I not care about anyone or anything (a travesty in an RPG), but I honestly think ChatGPT wrote half this game. Everything felt one-dimensional, inane, or flat out contradictory in some parts with wording or companion choices that made me go.... really?
Companions constantly forced optimism in situations that should have built on the sorrow and gravity of the circumstance (heck I'd settle for some authenticity every now and again). Everyone's personalities felt the same rather than the varied, eclectic cast they should have been. Not one of my companions had any darkness or morally ambiguity or even craziness because that was reserved to denote the villains.
Additionally, the ambient dialogue/pop-ups did more to treat me as the player like a child in need of hand-holding than an intelligent adult. Information was repeated constantly rather than saying it once and moving on (and allowing me to check my journal or codex when I forgot important pieces of info). Popups would appear to tell you what other characters were thinking or feeling which immediately took me out of the game's fantasy.
Suffice to say this served to make me annoyed and frustrated the longer the game progressed. Not a great feeling....

Hope this helps you decided to play or not play this game!
 

Inkweaver42
0
150 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 11

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
not fun >:(
companions are very annoying
dialogue was written by children
treats player like child/doesn't let player figure things out
often felt i couldn't make choices i wanted to
characters look weird?
combat very basic dodge-hit-dodge-hit but lacks fluidity of games like DS3 and ER
too much vfx during combat, gets distracting, animations look weird
character customization has alot to it but also feels oddly limited
e.g. there are tons of options but is missing really basic/obvious options.
 

Ondir
0
106 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
13.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Though I'm still very early into the game (or at least I would hope so), I cannot recommend it to anyone who's hoping for a real CRPG. HOWEVER, if you've never played a Dragon Age game before I believe that the majority of people interested in the game might enjoy it. The non-recommendation reflects my dislike of the game rather than advice on what you should do with your money. That being said, my expectations were so abysmally low that I can't say that I've been underwhelmed, in fact I'm impressed, but if I were to have to name the positive aspects of the game I would struggle. The game feels like a soft reboot in many ways, and pushes to new extremes the ignoring of lore and retconning which really began with Inquisition.

The biggest issues I've had with the game which I know will apply to all are technical issues. I'm only 9h in, and I already have corrupted save files. Additionally, the game constantly takes ages to load, be it to get to new areas or loading terrain during a cutscene. The character creation screen, which has seeming received praise from everyone who got their hands early on the game, and which is in many ways good, is reduced by other things. Namely, the fact that your character may just decided to revert to a preset appearance out of the bloom, and if you edit it with the Mirror of Transformation you might just be stuck with that default appearance and need to recreate your custom appearance or load an older save. The other issue, although this one is closer to a nitpick, is that whereas there are four lighting settings for Rook's creation, which were specifically added due to complaints in Inquisition, when you recreate your Inquisitor you are stuck with a single ugly greenish lighting, which I'm unsure is a joke or just a middle finger.

The gameplay has completely dumped any notion of being a traditional western RPG. Technically, it still is RPG gameplay, just in the same sense as Assassin's Creed games have been since Origins. The gameplay is now closer to Dark Souls than to DAO or Baldur's Gate. This is not an exaggeration, the fighting is now largely reliant on parrying and dodging the big red attacks like Soulsborne games, or Shadow of War. Every weapon (at least for rogue) now also has a stagger value, which might as well be called "poise damage" from FromSoft games. In a way, I respect Bioware for going this route, as both DA2 and especially Inquisition felt really confused as to whether or not they were RPGs in the same vein as DAO or wider appeal action games. However, the execution is rather apalling. It is incredibly difficult to visually tell when you're supposed to parry, every enemy seems to have a ranged attack and there seems to be a drastic aggro on the player under all circumstances. Most of the time, as a rogue, I end up cheesing fights by running around the enemy's whilst waiting for my abilities and arrows to reload, which is far from the ideal way of playing the game. The reduction of the party size from the traditional four to three would be incomprehensible to me, if it weren't for the ease of use for console users.

The environments of the game are its highlight. They all look very good visually and in a vacuum. However, both their usage in gameplay and their place in the DA franchise is again, poor. The game's idea of "exploration" is having an objective marker constantly point the way and expecting you to never deviate to loot the obvious areas which aren't directly on the beaten path. Much worse in my opinion, is the environment's within the narrative. Both Tevinter and the Qunari now run some sort of dystopian 1984-style government where they're monitoring movements in the street with big spotlights from the sky and screaming at citizens what to do. This aesthetic is incredibly jarring in a fantasy setting, especially DA which has a long history. The visuals for Arlathan are gorgeous, but again they clash with the aesthetics of DA and look like something out of a PlayStation game like Knack or Jak & Daxter rather than a DA game. Antiva is the one area I've explored so far which I've no criticisms of, visually.

I won't delve into the game's story or characters much, as I'm too early into it to judge in good faith. However, the writing is poor and at many moments cringe. In too many moments did I feel like I was having a group therapy session when the tone really did not align with that. On most occasions, the writing is just rather plain, direct and boring. Bioware has decided to return to the god-forsaken three dialogue paths of DA2 as the default, ie. Diplomatic, Joker and Aggressive. However here there doesn't really seem to be an actual correlation between the type of line chosen, the line which shows up around the wheel, what ends up being said and the reaction of other characters. A lot of lines which appear to be "jokes" are the unfunniest ♥♥♥♥ you'll ever hear. You also seem to be stuck into being a nice guy no matter what in both behaviour and speech, which is rather jarring considering this is supposed to be a ROLE-PLAYING game.

The music is rather meh and in some spots it sounds like it belongs in Mass Effect rather than Dragon Age.

As I've said earlier, and this is my biggest gripe with the game, it almost feels like a reboot. Bioware has decided that, in effect, only two decisions from the previous games would be imported in this one. Both from Inquisition. To me this is plain lazy and dishonest. What was so magical to me when I first played Origins, beyond the lore and characters, was the fact that decisions you made during the game would reflect throughout it, and were ultimately preserved during the credits. Although Inquisition and 2 didn't react to all choices of the previous games, I always found it interesting to have some tiny change in only a handful of lines of dialogue when speaking to a character because the Warden or Hawke had done B instead of A. There were poor executions, such as the case of Leliana in Inquisition if she died in Origins, however these were generally the exception rather than the rule. All that goes through the window now, because none of the prior choices matter. Morrigan, who if she had him centers her life around Kieran by the time of Inquisition, will never mention him here. Instead, she's here only to do a cheap cameo and get the player to soyjak at their screen. This is compounded by the earlier mentioned change in artstyle, which to me is an overall loss. Demons and darkspawn are the most egregious example, with the latter receiving a second visual overhaul which makes them look goofier than ever. The Qunari/Kossith suffer from this as well. The Darkspawn also seem to be entirely different from what they were in DAO, which was the main reference point for everything Darkspawn. Finally, many mysteries of the lore which have been speculated over for a decade now are answered in a blink with no gravitas, in the most matter-of-fact way possible.

I am far from being in love with this game, although I will play it to completion. Unlike others who might feel "betrayed" by Bioware, I feel rather indifferent. The quality of their work has been ~ 0 since the release of Andromeda, and this is not the grandiose return some may have expected. The studio has decided to dump the last few fans which got onboard with their games prior to Inquisition, which is about time. My greatest regret with the game is that it did not stay in development hell longer, so that maybe Bioware looked at BG3's success instead of, well only god knows what they were trying to do when making this game.
 

apollon1779
501 products in account
1
57 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
106.4 hrs on record
Posted: 8 November, 2024
As a long standing Dragon Age fan, I cannot recommend this game. It feels like they neutered the franchise, killed it, and this game is just them parading its corpse around. The writing is abysmal. As if this game was made for children in the way things are so blatantly thrown in your face at all times. Characters have very little nuance or depth to them to the point that it's hard to feel attached to any of them. Combat is boring and repetitive along with the enemies, and the puzzles are a joke. They're not even puzzles, they're just time wasting, mundane tasks to make you feel like you're doing something productive when in reality, you're just running around in a circle to take a crystal five feet.

The lack of choice is what really stands out here though. Dragon Age is a series that has been built on the foundation of player choice, and it is all but stripped from this game entirely. I can count on one hand the amount of important choices you make, and none of your choices in past games matter here either unless you're a Solas/Inquisitor romancer (which i am not). It feels like a slap in the face.

Past games were gritty and dark with occasional drops of comedy to relieve the tension. This game is the polar opposite. The whole damn world is ending and falling apart, but none of that is really felt throughout the game at all. There is no tension, no suspense, and no sense of dread or urgency to anything you do in this game. It all rings extremely hollow to an outright ridiculous degree. The entire atmosphere, even the music, is way too lighthearted, and it doesn't match the story they're trying to tell at all.

Some quests are good, some are mediocre, and some are abhorrently bad. They straight up lied when they said they tried to focus on quality over quantity here. Plus, exploration is a joke. The environments are stunning to look at, but they're just that; pretty art you can only experience in straight lines. Everything is a narrow maze that is more frustrating than anything else to explore through, to the point that I found myself longing for the Hinterlands from Inquisition which is saying a lot.

With all of that being said, I'm very meh on this game. It's not a bad game, but it is a bad Dragon Age game. By far the weakest in the series which is just sad for a number of reasons. I can't recommend this to long standing fans, and if you're a new player, just trust me and play the other three. I don't know who this game was made for because it certainly wasn't made with new players in mind, and it wasn't made with existing fans in mind either.

6.5/10 for me. It just makes me sad.
 

Wolf
22 products in account
0
69 people found this review helpful 3

Not Recommended
13.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
I will put this simply, this is not a good dragon age game. If you have played the other games and you like them. You will be disappointed.

If you've never played a dragon age game before, than this is a alright purchase, the dialogue and writing is pretty rough though.

Gameplay and world building very good
 

Posteriora
422 products in account
0
42 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
76.9 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
It really hurts me to not recommend the game but it is just simply a huge let down from what I was expecting, and what the DA series deserved.

First and foremost, let me say that this is very clearly intended to be a competitor to BG3 and I am so, so sad that it doesn't live up to it, BG3 was soooo much better yet I was so much more excited for VG. In my opinion this is even worse than DA2 so far, because at least DA2 gave us Varric. However, in VG, Varric's return is depressing and he is a shadow of himself. In fact, all the companions are so boring and flat that I'm struggling to genuinely care about any of them. The relationships move so slowly and there is little to no response to any flirting that I don't even understand why it's an option. Relationships aside, they are pretty much useless in combat too. Firstly now party size is 3 not 4, and they are effectively NPC's. We cannot control their builds, most skills add buffs for Rook, they are immortal and almost never targeted by enemies. It's genuinely so infuriating.

The choice to disregard everything but the most asinine cosmetic choices from Inquisition is the largest piece of FYOU I have ever seen to a dedicated fan base. How dare you tell me you wanted to "wipe the slate clean" and throw away the hours I have spent shaping the world I am playing in? Wasn't that what the dragon age keep was for? Or did it simply become too time consuming to create different scenes/talking points based on the variety of options? That's laziness pure and simple, this is a story we are all sharing and it was robbed from us.
Let's segue that to talk about the fact that my choice as a background seemed to have little impact except for Varric awkwardly inserting in a random conversation. When I met the actual veil jumpers I am supposed to be a part of, they still had to "explain" to me what they do and even though I am an elf, they also had to explain to me how elven history works and who the gods are. Why even let me choose if you're going to break immersion like that?

The map system is actually awful, there is way less to interact with and the path is so much more closed and linear. Way less collectables and fun puzzles in each section. Combat is repetitive and boring. Extra armour/weapons can't be sold everywhere so you end up holding a bunch of random junk forever. You now have factions that you have to rank up to unlock higher tier items so there's no making your own stuff or customization, just grind until you can upgrade the shops while applying random cosmetics you can also purchase. It's like they took all the worst parts of Inquisition and then made it worse.

I'm gonna finish it because I want to know the story and I owe it to myself to play it through after I spent this long waiting for it, but unless you're really into the DA franchise like myself, I would skip this one altogether honestly. I will update if my opinion changes at any point, but for now... I'm just really disappointed.
 

toxicbeauty
1,054 products in account
0
28 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
78.2 hrs on record
Posted: 13 November, 2024
Personally, I liked this game and have completed it 100%. I sincerely wanted to support this game, but I have played all the Dragon Age games more than once, read the books. Will I recommend it - NO, the game is for people who have never played other games in the series and this is their first game.

This is not a continuation of Dragon Age. This is a game in the Dragon Age universe. Very simplified and toothless in the world of unicorns. It's like the movie "Spiral" in the "Saw" universe.
If the name of game was just "The Veilguard" - I had less complaints. The title Dragon Age put too high a bar.

In short - the finale could have been made a separate DLC for the Inquisition and finished this franchise.

Details:
- Average gameplay (although I liked playing as a mage), average story, average companions, nice graphics.

Bad:
- All your choices in the past 3 games are not taken into account (except for the 3 questions from the Inquisition).

- No choices that affect the world.

- Companions are not bad, but not at all deep, template.

- You can't be rude in the game (there is a choice in the text, no choice), kick out or not accept a companion into the team like in previous games.

- There is no way to play an evil character.

- Romance (I chose Lucanis), they dragged it out until the end, then everything goes so fast and crumpled that you don't believe in this relationship at all.

- The battle with the final boss is unbalanced (it was too easy, literally 1-2 minutes, the game is on normal difficulty).

- The ending

SPOILER!!! (The ending with my elf inquisitor made me happy that it was finally over) SPOILER END!

But then the question is, why was this whole part necessary if it could have been finished with just another DLC for the Inquisition?!
And, yes, I saw the secret ending. So many questions and no answers.

You can complete the game once, but that's it. There's no point in replaying the game again. And thank goodness that all the achievements can be collected in one playthrough.

Personally, I don't regret buying it. Finally, after 10 years, I can breathe a sigh of relief. And Press F in memory of a great franchise. Rest in piece Bioware.

 

just_Elis
0
59 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
97.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 November, 2024
I've been a Dragon Age fan for fourteen years. I have played 80 hours of Veilguard at the time of review.

Veilguard is a 4/10 game.

There's nothing wrong with the plot points of the story - the true catastrophe lies in the script. Where Dragon Age once pushed boundaries and was unafraid to feature negativity, both in its subject matter and its characters, it has now been sanitised. The characters all act as if they have HR looming over their shoulder, ready to sanction them if they step out of line or say something the rest of the cast disagree with. Gone are the days of complex dynamics like the one between Fenris, Merrill, and Anders, or between Morrigan and Alistair, or between Vivienne and Solas. These are the times of the yes-men.

The lack of imported worldstates hamstrings this game. It's funny that this is the game that was supposed to be named after Solas because it is actually very soulless. The removal of imported worldstates is a giant middle finger to everyone who played the series all the way through from the very beginning. Imported Worldstates were the ONLY thing BioWare RPGs had over other games in the genre - the sole innovation the studio has come up with in the last twenty years - and now they're gone, and all we're left with is that ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ dialogue wheel that never says what it means.

If the person who wrote the "Humorous" dialogue options for Rook reads this, please DM me - I'm happy to pay for some comedy classes, because Jesus Christ, you're in urgent need.

The craziest thing is that the combat is actually great. It's genuinely fantastic, and that's what horrifies me the most, because I've found myself thinking that the dreaded live service version of this game that the studio was originally going for might've actually been the better game.

I was going to give the game a 5/10 and call it average, but I realised a 5/10 game wouldn't infuriate me this much. I wouldn't be this annoyed and this disappointed.

This is the most disappointing game I have ever played.
 

Hayven
0
30 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
35.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 November, 2024
Allright, here we go....

As a hardcore fan of the whole dragon age franchise i unfortunately have to say this game is not worth it.

First of all, let's get the whole trolling out of the way and point out that the more gay a game is the more i want it, in fact the main reason i got this game was because it was making the whole imbecile community angry with pronouns and ♥♥♥♥.

But here's the main reason i dislike this dragon age experience:

- The dialogues are painfully badly written, i feel like any dialogue choice i do wont matter or change anything meaningful, and most of the time whatever imput i give to the game is answered with a brief "yeah" or "okay" kinda response and not only that, the dialogue is in fact so painful it doesnt feel like it matters at all.

- The progressive side of the game feels like what biggots would assume LGBTQ people like or behave to get some of that "pink money" because it's PAINFULLY cringe.

- Combat is okay and kinda fun, but as a dark souls player, at least i can enjoy a good story and superior combat in dark souls, this game feels like a no brainer hack and slash (Tried all 3 classes) and i simply CANNOT bear the dialogue in this game.

- Your companions are boring, whenever they open their mouthes i feel like jumping off the closest cliff, including varric btw, like i said, badly written.

Conclusion: Unfortunately for me, i give this game a 4/10, if you really like dragon age, get it with at least 70% off, but if you enjoy a casual linear hack and slash with the most painful dialogue bioware has ever made, buy it like i did. (In fact i think i had a little more fun with Starfield, and i was one of the few people i know that enjoyed mass effect andromeda too, so there's that.)
 

Futanari
304 products in account
0
57 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
73.0 hrs on record
Posted: 9 November, 2024
Pros:
- The combat mechanics were solid and fun
- The character creator gave a lot of options

Cons:
- The disregard of past choices from pretty much all the prior games feels like a wasted opportunity and goes against everything established so far
- The story was clunky and felt way too linear with about 3 choices that don't really matter or feel like there's only one good choice
- The character development for companions was awful and the companions didnt feel like they were there for more then the occasional quip or time waster

Overall:

- Great potential but too many missed opportunities and a sort of pass over for what could have been
 

Mournblade
0
115 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 9

Not Recommended
41.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2024
Combat is pretty decent. The writing and dialog delivery is ATROCIOUS. Worst writing in an RPG in...decades. Specifically Neve. You're supposed to like her. They tried to set her up as a sassy girl-boss but she just comes off as obnoxious and annoying.
 

Ishme
0
111 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
The Choiceless: The Refunded


- Dialogue curated to be nice and non confrontational leaving a sense of meaninglessness while talking to companions or story npcs.

- There's no subtlety or intelligence in dialogue, everything is bluntly presented and delivered.

- Choices are minor and surface level, with very few meaningful exceptions.

- Exploration never rewards you with anything interesting or unexpected.

- Gameplay is extremely floaty, your character and enemies slides around as if on ice.

- Nightmare is not hard but a test of patience to wear down enemies.

- In combat "companions" are simply abilities, tactics and planning a thing of the past.

- There are no puzzles but time wasters.

- Questmarkers, a useless option in a game so linear that you can't not know where to go.

- Qunari was thought a joke before it was confirmed that it was how they actually looked.

- There's no ability difference between races, now called "lineage".

- Loot, it's all very minor increases making it feel rather useless, much like factions.

- You can respec at any point, there's no consequences.

- Menu delay.

- UI elements made for consoles.

- An entire "companion arc" to lecture you about gender politics, elements that have been in DA games but without stilted dialogue that doesn't fit the world or turning whole characters into mouthpieces for an agenda. Dorian was well made with great dialogue and handled with care with wit and charm in circumstances that fit the world and his situation in it, Taash is a lesson the developers tries to clumsily push on you.
 

TheQuestion
0
28 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
16.0 hrs on record
Posted: 13 November, 2024
This game would've been mid as a new IP but calling it "Dragon Age" gives me the anus bleeds.
 

Sikx
