249 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 15

Not Recommended
14.0 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2020
Takes about 15 hours to do a 100% play-through, or closer to 10 hours if you just want the core story.


Positives
• The first chapter (of the game's three) has an interesting story with twists that keep you interested in what will happen next.
• Unique methods of story-telling that aren't typically used for this type of game.
• A large amount of background story to find for people who take the time to explore the areas and read through everything.
• They finished the entire game before releasing it. Episodes are released a week apart rather than months apart.


Negatives
• As with all of Dontnod's games, the ending isn't satisfying and the final choice makes no sense in relation to the game's story.
• So many choices have very short time restrictions for no reason before the game just makes a choice for you. The timer bar is very small and hard to notice.
• Very easy to miss important things because you say or do something not knowing it will force the story to progress and lock you out of an area or interaction.
• Characters always react to long pieces of text immediately when they're opened, before you have a chance to read them.
• Characters sometimes interupt themselves or each other for less important or less interesting dialogue because they are scripted to walk around and talk about certain things after set amounts of time.
• Characters allow very little time to explore an area before they start their constant pestering about moving on to whatever you're intended to do to progress the story.
• It can often be difficult to find the exact place the game wants you to stand or point the camera to interact with something.
• Even though the episodes are not sold individually and were released only a week apart, the first two episodes still have post-credits spoiler videos for the following episode.
 

Ziggy
0
673 people found this review helpful
156 people found this review funny 13

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 19 May, 2024
"Tell Me Why" I have to be always online to play this game!
 

sysedit
441 products in account
0
256 people found this review helpful
65 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
TELL ME WHY

AINT NOTHIN BUT A GAME THAT CANT PLAY OFFLINE
 

GEO
81 products in account
0
572 people found this review helpful
19 people found this review funny 33

Not Recommended
12.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 March, 2021
I loved all the Life is Strange games but this one did not cut it. Boring is the best way I can describe it. Its a game that I only finished out of a sense of obligation. I was actually looking forward to it and bought it almost as soon as it came out. I only just finished it.




*** LOTS OF SPOILERS BELOW ***

The scenery is really nice, especially in the first episode where you're first introduced to the setting. That's really about the only nice thing I have to say about the game.

The abilities of the main characters to manifest their memories in the real world was neat but it doesn't really come up except where the story needs it. At that point its like, why not just have them remember things normally? The scenes of memories shown could have just been flashbacks. The magical element didn't add anything.
They should have left it more open; like you can discover memories on your own instead of having to do it at certain points to move the story forward. Like in Life is Strange where you can use the rewind power to alter all kinds of things in the world around you that aren't even related to the main story.
And the psychic stuff is never questioned or explained. I figured that would be a big part of the conclusion and would be related to who their father was but nope. They just have powers, happens all the time. Admittedly, LIS didn't explain the origin of the powers but they didn't gloss over it like its no big deal; it was a major focus. Same with LIS2 where it was pretty much the MAIN focus of the game.

The puzzles were tedious and elicited a loud groan from me every time they came up. They all involve having to read through a 30-page children's book. And they weren't even integrated in the events of the story, they were just literal puzzles. They didn't feel organic or compelling; they felt like padding. The one exception was where you had to dig through the police archive records.
And the final puzzle that the mother left behind felt so unnatural. She spent all that time and effort creating a room full of puzzles to reveal deeply personal things. If it was meant to hide these secrets, why make it at all? If it was meant to be found by Tyler and Alyson, then why make it a game? Just leave a letter explaining what you want them to know. And if it was so secret, how did Tom know about it?

The characters are not interesting and mostly seem just whiny and unsympathetic. Tyler is just unbearable. Alyson is unremarkable and hollow. There weren't really any big stakes for them. No matter how the story ended, they would be fine so I couldn't really care about their investigation. It would have been more interesting to set the game when they were kids with a mother that is losing touch with reality. Or maybe flash back and forth between the two time periods. The whole game was like a prologue to a more interesting story.
The end was disappointing and so inconsequential that the game itself was like "just pick an ending, it doesn't matter". It literally had you choose the reality that you wanted to be true rather than actually getting to the bottom of the mystery. Then what the hell was the point? We could have done that on day one.
And regardless of the reality you chose, nothing changed. The kids would have ended up mostly the same way, either adopted or sent to some orphanage or similar facility. It was a waste of my and their time to investigate it.

Life is Strange was a masterpiece. Not perfect but whatever faults it had were far outweighed by its merits. This game is the opposite; its merits were far outweighed by its faults.
 

morb0
0
99 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
13.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 October, 2021
They had me in the first half, not gonna lie.

I am no stranger to interactive movies masquerading as games, like Telltale's The Walking Dead. These games bank on their stories, characters, and world to engross the player and deliver an enjoyable experience. But we also saw some much-needed gameplay innovation. Detroit: Become Human, Heavy Rain, Until Dawn, all have this everpresent uncertainty of whether a single "wrong" choice or a tardily button press would spell doom for your protagonist.

So, does Tell Me Why bring something new to the table? No, it does not. It's a pretty generic story-driven game with some okayish bits. The mystery surrounding the events that unfolded on that fateful night and Mary-Ann's life pushed me to play so I could see how everything would conclude. I also liked how Michael and the edgy lone wolf, Tyler, were written. Both are part of the LGBTQ+ community, but neither has their sexual orientation or gender as their defining character trait nor is Tyler's transition to a transgender man used as the only focal point of the story. It's just another part of the puzzle called "The Life of the Ronans." So, props to the writers for creating compelling and believable characters in these two. The others... Well, they could've used some of that love as well. They weren't bad, but I found them lacking, as they mostly filled a specific stereotype that was simply there to push the story further. None of their actions left me surprised, nor did I care for them. But the only one that really disappointed me was Alyson. I can't put my finger on it, but she was just plain, uninteresting, and I never enjoyed playing as her.


I mean, it says, "This is not a scam!" so it must be true. I'm in! 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: Sv. Prolivije

But this is where this mostly fun train ride ends.

Sv. Prolivije did not like that!

Let's start with the interactions between the twins, Alyson and Tyler. It felt fake and forced. I never felt like they genuinely cared for one another or were close. But the game made it its mission to tell me this as often as possible. And if said enough times, I guess that somehow makes it true. The siblings felt more like stage actors who took this gig for a quick buck. It's also absurd how much they fight and how quickly they forgive one another. It's as if it was purposefully written this way to stir up some fake tension and drama between the two.

Now, onto the "amazing" bond system between the siblings. It's either deepened by being nice to everyone or worsened by being an arse, justified or not. And this just did not work for me. Why? Well, some people really did deserve the arse reaction. So, instead of telling someone off, who lied and betrayed your trust, you should be nice to them. You don't want to hurt your sibling's feelings or something.

But what does it matter when your actions won't affect the ending? Sorry, I should rephrase that — only two choices in Chapter 3 will influence the ending. Expanding further would require heavy spoilers. And since some still might want to play and judge the game themselves, I'm gonna abstain from going into further detail. But know, each of the two scenarios in Chapter 3 that determine the ending you get will offer you two choices — one makes sense and fits the story, and the other doesn't. Simple. This pretty much made the "twins bond" stuff irrelevant. But so are all the choices leading up to this chapter. So, feel free to be an arse when the time is right without fearing that you will get a bad ending or something.


Family reunions are always fun 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: Sv. Prolivije

Speaking of bad endings, remember Mass Effect 3 and its "awesome" endings (The red ending is finally canon! Woooo!!)? Well, the endings to our duo's journey are basically that — just two differently coloured endings. The final chapter felt like it was on rails, with poor pacing compared to the previous parts. But oh boy, is the story riddled with plot holes and conveniences just so the story can happen. Shakespeare who?

There was one scene where I thought (and hoped) the story would take a more supernatural turn. Maybe the twins, constantly using their "voice", a form of telepathic communication between the two, somehow manifested the menacing Mad Hunter from their stories. And it was he who had a hand in all of this. But nope. Instead, my more boring prediction came true. Now, I'm a little sad my silly supernatural thingy wasn't the correct one.

Anyway, let's wrap this up.

The last part is the gameplay. While I don't judge the gameplay of story-driven games too harshly, Tell Me Why feels outdated. Even Telltale's The Walking Dead: The Final Season had other forms of player interaction besides simply walking around and pressing A. You got to shoot and use traps to kill zombies. Here, you walk, press A to hear pointless dialogue or watch short memories from the twins' past, then press A some more until a cutscene triggers and repeat. On occasion, the game may introduce a puzzle or two. But they were mostly a nuisance. The solutions were simple, yet finding them was tedious. You have to scour the book from our twins' childhood, searching for clues hidden within its stories. Thankfully, you can also pry open any lock — there's always a handy tool somewhere near. So, at least Don't Nod were self-aware enough about the quality of their puzzles to include this skip.


*sad american noises* 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: Sv. Prolivije

And lastly, there are no quick-time events, time-limited or button-mashing sections, and during the dialogue that affects the story, you have all the time in the world to decide your answer. However, the story parades this constant sense of urgency for some reason. The twins MUST sell their house and move away from their hometown as soon as possible. Why? So the story can happen, of course! It's just poor writing, done to create an artificial sense of urgency in the player. And it's clear — the gameplay lets you dillydally all you want with zero repercussions.

In the end, I wasted my time playing this game. I liked some of the characters and the mystery surrounding Mary-Ann and her life. But once all the pieces were in place, the payoff was underwhelming and not worth the wait. Pair it with tedious gameplay, used only to prolong the game's runtime, and you have a perfect recipe for a "masterpiece."

Also, how are you gonna call your game Tell Me Why and not include a single kart racing easter egg or collectable? For shame Don't Nod, for shame!

To those who made it this far, you're all majestic sausages. And if you enjoy this review, come and consume more wisdom from the Gospel of Sv. Prolivije.
 

Sv. Prolivije
1,219 products in account
23
132 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
9.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 January, 2021
The positive side of this game is the visuals - the colours and mountains and water made me want to visit Alaska.
BUT I can't really recommend this game because of one main reason - the game didn't really feel like one.

I love walking simulators and story-based games, but especially this kind of games have to offer a user a fair game. I simply didn't feel like I had enough choices. User is usually offered only two choices, and it's pretty clear which one is "correct" in the opinion of developers. Anyway, both choices are usually like that: something aggressive and unresonable and something extremely understanding and unrealistic. The world isn't like that and I love when such games show us all the shades of grey that are between being a total jerk and a saint. I was really disappointed in this aspect of the game as I've read reviews about a masterpiece storytelling etc. For me it felt more like interacting with the "perfect" people for 8 hours. I don't know, maybe I live in an emotionally barren (or filled with flawed people) world or something like that but I don't think people are so forgiving, so understanding and so ready to admit their mistakes as in this game.

TLDR; Not enough choices, felt like I was forced into playing an "ideal human being"
 

kate2805
0
116 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
12.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 September, 2020
This is a good game, it really shows Dontnod knows how to craft an interesting experience, but they really need better writers. There is nothing inherently wrong with the story, but as often is the case with choice & consequence games, it really shines through how there is a right way and a wrong way to choose, this should not be the case in what is marketed as an open story where you decide the outcome. An example in this game is how the twins remember things, and can look back at their memories, but sometimes their memories are slightly different (Tyler remembers somebody as being angry, and Alyson remembers the same someone as being sad) and everytime so far, picking Alysons memory is "wrong" and sours your relationship with your twin. I don't like this and it feels like forced narrative, the game is basically centered around Tyler and if you don't agree with him, it's the wrong choice according to the game. Same thing when Tyler is angry at a person very close to Alyson, if you defend that person boom it's the wrong choice, like the game wanted you the player to make Alyson throw a person very close to her under the bus for an old grudge Tyler holds.
Well anyway aside from this the game is well made and interesting. I would recommend it but what I talked about is really weighing down the positives. I'm not finished with the story so I might update this.

Update: So I finished the game, the problems I talked about persists through the game. ultimately feeling like I watched the story play out, not affecting what happens really. If steam had a Yellow rating or a sideways thumb I would rate it that. For now I will say buy the game on a sale, the story is worth experiencing, it has that DontNod feel. But the choice & consequence gameplay is not very strong and not worth buying it for that aspect alone.
 

The two ton terror of Tel-Aviv
984 products in account
3
70 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 12

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 September, 2020
I really wanted to like this game, but I honestly struggle to find anything positive to say about it. I liked the idea of trying to piece together old memories, and the plot was quite intriguing to begin with. Besides that pretty much the only thing I can praise is the visuals. Whilst obviously not on par with big AAA titles, it's a far improvement on DONTNOD's previous games, from the atmosphere of the environment to the tiny details in each location, it's pretty nice to look at. The characters are okay, though I sometimes find them inconsistent.

Now, onto the bad things...

Janky Controls
The characters are difficult to move around, which often makes it hard to interact with the points of interest in the environment. There's no run button, but your character will start running when the game decides it's necessary. The memory mechanic is fiddly and awkward to use, as are the dialogue options when they appear.

Boring Gameplay
DONTNOD's games are often slow, but this game was absolutely tedious to slog through. The storybook theme wasn't interesting at all, and I had no fun solving any of the puzzles. One of my favourite things to do in these kinds of games is to look around at everything, and interact with it all to hear the characters' thoughts on things. In this game, almost every time you interact with something there is another character around who will comment on whatever your player character has said, which leads every bit of exploring into several lines of dialogue.

(Also, if your character is alone while you're exploring, rather than hearing their thoughts the character is actually speaking out loud to themselves, which was really weird once I noticed it.)

The Storybook Theme
This may be a personal preference but the storybook theme got old really fast. Reading through some kids' fairytales to work out puzzles was SO boring. Listening to two 20-year-olds constantly talking about goblins and referring to characters as their storybook counterparts was really cringey.

Frustrating Pacing/Plot Progression
It takes characters so long to work out some obvious details that I felt like I was always two steps ahead of the plot. There are many instances in the game where the characters would find out crucial information to progress the plot, and then just... not act on it. If I've discovered an interesting story revelation I want to find out more, not screech to a halt to do a tedious fetch quest and a bunch of dialogue I don't care about. On the other hand, there are many times where the game tries to push you towards the plot during times when I actually want to explore.

Your Choices Don't Matter
This is the biggest problem I have with this game. LiS 1 had some great branching consequences and LiS 2 tweaked the mechanic to make it even better, so I had high hopes for this game. Turns out your choices do not matter whatsoever.

There's a little dialogue puzzle in Episode 1 where you try to get some information from a side character. On my first playthrough I didn't pass this, but in the next scene my character's attitude did a total 180 and I was really confused. After I went back and replayed the scene to pass the puzzle, the exact same cutscene happened (with some minor dialogue changes), and I realised it made much more sense that way.

This happens with every choice. It doesn't matter what dialogue options I choose, the twins will either argue or talk it out depending on what the game wants. In Episode 3 there is a major piece of information that you can choose to reveal or keep to yourself; something that should change one of the established relationships completely. Again, some different dialogue happens but the end cutscene of that section is exactly the same no matter what you choose.

What's the point in having "choices" if it makes absolutely no difference at the end of the scene?

Unsatisfying Plot
Even with all of the above problems, I pushed through to the end of Episode 3 because I was interested to see where the plot was heading. Needless to say, I was hugely disappointed. Without spoiling the ending, it was completely unsatisfying.

Overall, a massive disappointment that I just can't recommend. I might pick it up again to grind the achievements but I have no desire to ever replay the story.
 

PaigeLazarus
385 products in account
2
47 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
10.5 hrs on record
Posted: 3 October, 2020
WARNING - CONTAINS SPOILERS

I’ve broken this review up into three sections. The Good (stuff I liked), The Bad (stuff I didn’t like), and The Ugly (stuff I really didn’t like). If you’re not in a reading mood, there’s a tl;dr at the bottom.


THE GOOD
(1) There's no two ways about it; Tell Me Why looks gorgeous. The environments are beautifully rendered, and I could probably stare at the water animation all day.The audio to first-rate, too; particularly the background noise. There were a couple of times I’d hear a sound in-game (a plane flying overhead or someone talking) and I’d take my headphones off to check if it had been real.

(2) I liked the way the player alternates between both siblings, allowing them to experience things from different perspectives and demonstrating how the game characters react differently to each twin.

(3) The story has a lot of interesting hooks and maintains an air of mystery that makes the player curious for more.


THE BAD
(1) Although the plot seemed to show promise, it never really felt like it went anywhere. There were scenes and story elements that were likely added to give the world a more complete feel, but many of them end up feeling like weird loose ends. Scenes like this add up to make half the game feel like a string of pointless conversations. For example, 

(2) The controls are kind of awkward. I was using an Xbox-style gamepad to play, and more often than not trying to move the characters around resulted in them jinking around like they were only passingly familiar with how walking was supposed to work.

(3) The game doesn’t have multiple save slots, the automatic save points could be pretty far between, and there’s no manual save function. That means that if you have to turn the game off before reaching one, you might end up losing up to an hour of progress. It also means that if you make a mistake (like accidentally selecting the wrong response in a conversation) you have to quit to the main menu and start over from the last auto-save, with no way to skip over any of the cut-scenes.

(4) While there aren’t too many of them, Tell Me Why does include a few non-optional (and largely pointless) quicktime events. One of them comes up when  It does nothing to advance the story and ends up feeling like a complete waste of time.

(5) There are multiple occasions where the twins recall the details of a past event differently, and the player has to choose which one is ‘true’. Now matter how you feel about it as a player, picking the memory of the twin you’re not controlling at that time gives you a positive result. Alternatively, if you choose the memory of the twin you’re controlling at that time, it upsets the other one and damages your bond as siblings. This make them feel less like legitimate choices and more like true/false questions.

(6) The playthrough time is only about 10 hours. Compared to the 20-25 hours of gameplay in Life is Strange or the 30+ hours in Life is Strange 2, this really isn’t a lot.


THE UGLY
(1) There’s an element to the game that is somehow made a core element of the story and completely glossed over at the same time. 

(2) A lot of the characters reacted to big things in unusually subdued or unusual ways. For example, 

(3) A lot of the dialogue prompts are misleading, leading to a different reaction than you intended to have. For instance, you could select one that says “I don’t think so.” expecting it to sound hesitant, and instead you’ll end up sounding petulant or argumentative, ultimately pissing off whoever you’re talking to.

(4) There are, for all intents and purposes, two endings to the game. In the ‘happy’ ending,  In the other ending,  I admittedly never got to this ending myself, since it requires the player to make a ton of negative choices. I ended up having to watch it on YouTube.

(5) In the end, nothing really comes of the events of the game. Perhaps, the twins understand their past a little better, but there’s no big or life-changing decisions. For instance, 


SUMMARY
Tell Me Why is a visually lovely game with amazing audio and completely gorgeous scenery. Unfortunately, it suffers from mildly awkward controls and a poor auto-save system. Its storyline, while interesting, fails to meet its potential and never really comes together in the end.
 

iamcave76
0
54 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
16.7 hrs on record
Posted: 30 June, 2023
Pro:
Music is great.
Scenery and environments are beautiful.
Story is relatively decent, nothing to write home about tho.
The puzzles/storybook were pretty cute.


Con:
-would have been nice if the characters had like, emotions on their faces instead of the FLAILING
-the twin bond is frustrating, it gives the impression that the only way to strengthen the bond is to agree with Tyler every single time.
-SPEAKING OF TYLER. Listen, I get how tough it can be being trans (in rural america, no less) BUT not a single character is rude or transphobic or even vaguely mean to Tyler at all, ever. Everyone respects his pronouns, they accept his identity (Sam is old and doesn't understand but he was quick to get on board), they show no malice whatsoever (even Tessa obviously regrets what she did) but Tyler is still a defensive ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ to EVERYONE. Even his own damn sister who was honestly the real victim in all of this. Why would I ever feel sympathy for a character who is just so outright abrasive and unsympathetic to everyone around him?
-Michael meeting Tyler for the first time and immediately hitting on him/asking him out is honestly creepy. Like damn dude, I know you're the only gay in town but at least wait 24 hours before tryna get your freak on
-it feels like the game is trying to force you to feel sympathy for Tyler and Mary-Ann (who are so deeply unlikable) while framing the actual characters deserving of sympathy as in the wrong (Alyson and Sam deserved better)

It's a"meh" from me
 

SisterJawbreaker
0
56 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
10.8 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2022
Product received for free

"This doesn't feel like a story of empowerment or overcoming ones past, this feels like a story of idiocracy."

Tell Me Why is a slow burn episodic narrative driven game in the same vein as games such as Life Is Strange however some may find being an episodic narrative driven game is where the comparison ends.

There's a large disconnect between the player and the siblings. In one scene 





On certain levels I can empathise with certain themes in the game such as deadnaming, mental health and being young lol etc however in Tell Me Why I found it completely impossible to empathise or even sympathise with these characters. They have so little real personality. The extremely sad part of this is that at times, it feels deliberate for example:



It's not all bad, 

I do hope episode 2 is better. I do hope more personality comes. I do hope an actual reason is giving for the  because there is promise of a good story within this game... but I doubt it.

As it stands episode 1 has been a huge disappointment but hey-ho who knows, the story could turn around.

Chapter 2 review:
https://steamcommunity.com/profiles/76561198400190880/recommended/1238430/

Chapter 3 review:
https://steamcommunity.com/profiles/76561198400190880/recommended/1266670?snr=1_5_9__402
 

Huge Beard Guy
3
38 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
34.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 February, 2021
Similar to Dontnod's Life Is Strange, Tell Me Why is an interactive feature movie focusing on the story of twins in a small Alaskan town, trying to find out who their mother really was and why she acted as she did in the past.

The story is very slow paced, the characters are uninspiring and the game feels like it will never finally come to an end — Dontnod really made the scenes painfully slow. The best example is probably the scene in the store where we're counting the cans, putting stickers to the furniture and …

Probably the only highlight of Tell Me Why are the fairy tale world created by the twins mum Mary-Ann, in the Book of Goblins, and the accurately and thoughtfully executed representation of trans protagonist Tyler.

The game's intention is to focus on the dialogues, however they are too often pretty meaningless chat instead of well written conversations — why not let characters flirt instead of letting them count the tomato cans? There was a plenty of space for a few serious or funny conversations.

When compared to the Life Is Strange, some people noted the «much improved graphics style», which I see quite the opposite way — the graphic style of Tell Me Why is pretty much failed.

The reason why is simple: In Life Is Strange we get that dreamy tempera + gouache look which is resembling of a hand drawn game — in Tell Me Why, we get improved detail, but in a bad mixture of high detailed characters and low detail surroundings, which kind of don't belong together.

The town is empty, environmental details are hardly available, the lifeless facial expressions of the characters do not reflect emotions. Paired with the cumbersome investigating of the environment and missing music …

On top of it, we also get some really awkward and annoying «chasing the memories» game mechanics, which requires us to find them first (upon the right trigger event), walking around with the space key pressed down until we found them and then focus on them by holding a mouse button.

https://steamcommunity.com/app/1180660/discussions/0/2941370278930188816/#c5051317596404336828

Also, when I already talk about the technical execution, that new graphic style now needs DirectX 12 and uses 4 GB VRAM. I'd very much prefer the old, «moody» graphic style, which used DirectX 9 and 1 GB VRAM.

This new style still looks pretty old, when compared to 7 y/o «The Vanishing of Ethan Carter». The original Life Is Strange looked way more original (== better) and would run even on some old Intel HD 3000 on-chip graphics without dedicated memory (shared 256 MB DDR 3 RAM suffices!).

Hard to recommend.
 

Qiana
1
72 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
17.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2023
More of a movie than a game. The game provides you with very few choices to make, and these choices do not carry the same weight as choices in games like "Life is Strange". The game is 90% walking around, inspecting objects, and listening to the narration that accompanies those objects. These things coupled with how long and drawn out the story is makes for a game that is not engaging at all.
 

colo3000
568 products in account
0
67 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 December, 2021
i kind of like the story its just, the way its presented feels really slow and boring, i dont want to go through 30 seconds of annoying gameplay for a 20 minute cutscene thats just them sitting there talking its just not my thing.
i could see how others like this game but its just not fun for me i guess.
 

Perhapuccino
304 products in account
1
111 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
11.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 April, 2022
I was really hoping to like this game since Life is Strange was one of my favorite games and had one the best stories in any videogame I have ever played. So my expectations were honestly high. However, despite the game looked good and the voices and acting were pretty impressive, the story behind it was dumb, dull and unintesresting. None of the characters are likeable, not even the main characters. There is nothing you can really think of to connect or relate to with them, as opposed to those from LiS for instance. Here they do not have personality, and many are just secondary ones with absolutely no relevance whatsoever in the game. Although it touches upon many controversial issues (suicide, transgender, alcoholism, etc...) many situations feel forced, not making sense or feeling too real, as though they were just fillers. But the most important thing about this game that really got up to my nerves was the pace of the gameplay. It is extremely slow and boring and 90% of the time you basically do nothing but either passing lines and reading or walk around looking for objects or persons to interact with, most of which are completely skippable and/or irrelevant. Sometimes you can even end up getting stuck in a loop conversation that cannot be skipped, or just have to walk at a very slow pace to one place to the other, or end up passing an invisible no-return point and you miss whatever you left behind. At some point, without realizing I was yawning and wishing the game ended asap to move on. I thought, well maybe it gets better and the story has a big turnout in the end or there is a twist-plot or something. But I was wrong, the end is meh and it all comes down to basically choosing what to believe or what you think is more likely to have have happened. The "remember things" ability seemed interesting and could have been something quite useful, similar to what happened in LiS with Max and the ability to go back in time. However, in TmW it only serves to see short flashbacks, nothing more, quite a waste to make something cool out of it honestly...Finally, decisions do not matter, maybe one or two at some points and very minor, but the big majority do not go beyond having slightly different conversations or lines from specific characters without any influence on the story. Overall, it was quite a disappointment, boring game, bad story and forgettable characters.
 

Trachemysta
0
145 people found this review helpful
10 people found this review funny 6

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2020
Product received for free

I love games created by Dontnod Entertainment. Life is Strange is probably the 2nd-3rd best story driven cinematic “choices matter” game I ever experienced (First is Telltale’s Walking Dead, I believe the story of Clementine is unbeatable in this category). While Vampyr had some bad combat, it was also saved by the very good story. I believe so, that Tell Me Why doesn't have the quality we usually get from this developer team.

Right now it feels that the review score has been brought by the fear of downvoting a game with its current theme. While Tell me Why has a message, I believe it is important for a story to be well written and interesting, which pulls in the player at the first second and not letting us away until the end.

The game has a very promising start. We learn about a family tragedy which causes the protagonist twin siblings to get apart while they are still very young. The gameplay start as the now adult twins reunite, so they can face their past and move on. Episode 1 is usually not the most emotional chapter in these kinds of games but Dontnod managed to make it extremely boring.

We learn about the superpower of the twins, that they can see the past and they have telepathically bonded with each other. The premise of the game is great. While one of the twins is a trangender human being and there are references in the story that he had a tough childhood because of that the writers failed to deliver any emotional memories to the players about this. In the 3 hours of the Episode we see just happy memories, that they both were loved by their mom, and while their mom was clearly fighting with inner demons there was a question in the air all the time: What was the problem which caused the tragedy? Based on the memories the game showed us, the tragic events were not exactly expected. During this “prologue” it was easy to abandon the game, I felt like it is a work to keep playing and the biggest problem of it? It is 33% of the total game, not just in the number of Episodes, but also in the total playtime.

Then we get to the ending of the first part of the game. The cliffhanger there is the first heartbreaking and emotional scene. It gave at least some hope for Episode 2, which was now actually better. The twins try to figure more about their past, they try to get better knowledge on their mother and about the inner shadows that haunted her. It started to be clear that only one of the twins is a notable character. Alyson became much more interesting and emotional. It could be because of the significantly better voice acting on her. Tyler is a different case, it felt so that the writers had no clue what to do with a transgender character and the forced LGBTQ romance with a side character felt more distracting and slowed down the story which was already bleeding. I blame the writers on that. The character of Tyler had a huge potential.

Then Episode 3 arrived and it was now finally on the standard of Dontnod. Alyson's character literally made the episode to a one protagonist show. His fight with the past and keeping mental integrity while getting released of it's burden is the emotional high point of the story.

The twins reveal the secrets and history of their mom at the end of the game through some very nice and interesting puzzles. We will get our happy or bad ending then at the end, based on the decisions we had during the gameplay, just like another important story at the end based on our single decision there.


Conclusion

It is worth playing if you have XBOX game pass because of some other game but purchasing it directly for the asked price? Nope, the actual valuable content of the game is way too short filled with empty stories.

Story: 5/10 Expected more from Dontnod.
Replay value: 1/10 Story driven game and the different decisions not influencing the story radically.
Atmosphere: 6/10 Game is easy to stop during episode 1 but then it gets some “moments’.
Voice Acting: 6/10 Tyler feels bad, Alyson exceptional and some characters have an extremely neutral and boring voice acting.
Visuals: 9/10 Nice looking game.
Music/Sound effects: 9/10.
Game difficulty: 3/10 There are some puzzles in the game, but no gameplay challenges in the game, no quick time events either.

Hey, I am an achievement hunter!
Perfection time: ~14-18h. Nearly two whole playthroughs required as 2 achievements awarded for the two endings and that is determined by the decisions you made through the whole game. It might be an option to focus on one in episode 1, then focus on another one on episode 2+3 so need to replay only from the start of episode 2. I can’t confirm this yet, not sure the different decisions outweigh E1 decisions. There are also collectibles and many missable achievements, but there are many guides already for the game.

Disclaimer: Game was given to me for review purposes by Microsoft/Xbox studios.

If you liked the review or you like to earn achievements, but in enjoyable, fun and entertaining games, then please follow my Average Achievement Hunter curator or just check out our curated games. Thanks
 

Csontzuzo
5,641 products in account
11
87 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2022
Nothing about the main characters makes them remarkable or likeable. Their personalities are so flat & the 'power' feels like it was shoehorned in. Just like how other people have described this game it seems like spare parts from "Life is Strange" were mishmashed together. I love so many games from the DONTNOD catalog, but this just wasn't it.
 

pinpha
24 products in account
0
110 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2021
*SPOILERS*
The story also was obvious to me. Tyler was incredibly annoying as one of the protagonists. I understand but not everything on why people wouldn't like you is in relation to you being trans. I guess it annoyed me more because I'm a lesbian and the community can be so damn annoying with their victim mindset.

He was fine till the 

I also disliked how Tyler would get mad when you didn't agree. Grow the ♥♥♥♥ up. Your sister isn't an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ for not always agreeing with you. 

I could go on. Would I recommend? If there was a "maybe"I'd give it that. The story was kind of nice. Art was beautiful. Soundtrack was great. But I stopped since the plot was obvious and I was annoyed with Tyler.
 

mirage
180 products in account
0
47 people found this review helpful 7

Not Recommended
12.7 hrs on record
Posted: 30 December, 2023
Product received for free

tl;dr: You're better off playing just Life is Strange and skipping this one.

Pros:
+ Pretty
+ I liked the very few puzzles at the end
+ Michael
+ Core story was emotional, but could have hacked off 7 hours of the game for it

Cons:
- Gameplay. There is none. :(
- Choices do not have meaningful consequences.
- All choices boil down to "be mad" or "be diplomatic."
- Achingly slow story pace that does not pay off or work for a 10+ hour game with 0 gameplay.
- Climactic choice/scene is actually just a media literacy test and not satisfying.
- Exploration isn't worth it.
- I want my 12 hours back

Tell Me Why is a game that could have been something great as maybe a 3 hour game or a movie. But at 10+ hours to tell this story, it is just plain bad. It is disrespectful of the player's time/money by dragging this out longer than it needed to in order to sell multiple chapters. There are not 3 chapters worth of content to this story/game. You may get some snippets of dialogue/lore from exploration, but it is nothing you won't ultimately glean from just the main content/stuff immediately in your path. I would not recommend this game to anyone, sorry :(
 

Michelle
0
193 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2021
I have played through the first chapter of Tell Me Why, I am on the fence and wish I could give it a 'middling rating'. I love story based games, but what I have seen so far, Tyler is such an unlikable character; he is controlling over his sister Alyson in the story, flashbacks show his selfish side. Even throughout what I have seen, everything revolves around his feelings and his point of view, in my perception, comes across as narcissistic. I know in the game the trauma they have both faced, but at least make your main character likeable. For example, I do really like Alyson in contrast, she sympathises with her brother and is the most logical and well mannered of the two, Tyler is resentful all the time (I know, trauma), but in the opening act it just makes players not like the character. I will say though, the setting is beautiful and it is very believable, and I will play it to the end, as I respect the awareness it raises. I just wish Tyler could have been written better, Disco Elysium is an example of superbly written multi-layered characters.

Edit one: I have now played through Episode Two and it is much better than Episode One, my original points still stand for first impressions. Tyler can still react negatively to other people, but you now have the ability at many points to change the outcomes of certain situations, which can make him become more likeable. Episode One really needed a stronger start, for example; Dontnod could have gave the player more agency in how to react in Episode One, which is present in Episode Two. They feel completely different in terms of quality of writing too.
 

lonelytraveller
13
39 people found this review helpful
22 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 April, 2021
Honestly, if you're a trans guy like I am, I can't recommend this. It's all trans suffering, misgendering, the usual. I can't do this.
 

LeighMaxwell
0
65 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
super boring, decisions have no real effect on anything. you will be bored the whole time
 

OneTrueSaman
0
38 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 80

Not Recommended
113.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 July, 2022
i don't like this game, the story is not exciting and boring things last a long time,compared to the life is strange, this is just a trash.maybe that's why it's free.
 

⎛⎞Cossack Elysium⎛
28 products in account
0
238 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 February, 2023
This game- look I get the major point of this game is a kid who is trans journey and them reliving the past about their mother but that is all this game has to offer it is- very slow and boring the mechanics feel very odd- the dialogue is very cringe.
 

LaheysLiqour
0
60 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
13.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 February, 2021
Started this game with high hopes, ended with disappointment. Its not bad, but the story is lacking depth and interesting points and twists. The only thing that sets this game apart is an underdeveloped mechanic of sharing memories and thoughts between the two protagonist and that one of them happens to be transgender. Unfortunately the game only lightly touches what could have really set it apart. Choices in the game also didn’t feel as if they carried much weight. Voice acting is decent. Graphics are average. 6/10
 

Parlelish
802 products in account
0
21 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
4.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2022
Product received for free

I really tried to like this game, but I just couldn't. All the characters just seemed entitled and self-centered with no consideration of anyone else. This is supposed to be a game about compassion and understanding and I didn't get any of that.
 

[VVAR] Razzun
0
44 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 19 November, 2022
I respect the work of Tell Me Why developers, artists, designers, but this is the worst game of DONTNOD.
The plot is weak, main characters don't cause empathy as I see them as cranky kids, and there is a loooot of moments that you want to skip. I loved LIS so I decided that tihs one will be similar, but no, LIS is much better concerning plot and dynamics
 

Apple Blossom
0
133 people found this review helpful
11 people found this review funny 13

Not Recommended
11.2 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2020
So pretty excited for the game but I am going to be honest, it plays off the popularity and the brilliance of life is strange 1 - playing this game feels like a much lower quality version of their original game. Game is still a decent play but all in all a bit dissappointed.

SPOILERS
The story itself is kinda lame - you are digging up your own past from 10 years ago and going around asking people questions around random days 10 years ago then getting upset if they happen to not fully remember. The choices seams really low and in first chapter I barely remember even making any dialogue options.

In other games like life is strange for instance you are put into a problem ( stop an evil teacher and save your friend or escape police to save your brother) and use your cool powers to get out of them the best you can. In tell me why they are making up their own problems and getting upset that people cant remember fully what happened on April 10th or September 7th 10 years ago.

All in all 4/10- it will still be a decent play if you are fan of these type of games like me but if I am frank and honest the game itself is just not that great in comparison to others of the same genre.

This is purely for chapter 1/2- perhaps chapter 3 would be better but at the current moment in time I am struggling to relate to why they care so much to dig up 10 year old past with their powers rather than getting on with their life, the lack of choices also make it pretty lame at the moment considering this is supposed to be a "choices matter" game.
 

Bozza
13
26 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.8 hrs on record
Posted: 20 February
I found the story dull and predictable, the characters felt shallow with little or no emotional connection to me as the gamer.

Loved the original 'Life is strange' and was blown away by 'Before the storm' so the genre is definitely my thing, just not this game sadly.
 

YsoGamerClown
0
25 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
16.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2021
Product received for free

While I like the setting and idea behind the messaging I found the pacing and overall player involvement lacking.

The use of the storybook really slows things down and I really wish the developer chose to allow player to go into the storybook world and experience all those stories first hand like the later parts of Life Is Strange.

Honestly, the transgender character was the most fascinating thing (at least initially) coming into this game. After completion I felt that at best it was under-utilized window dressing to draw gamers in and at worst, clickbait.

I honestly thought the journey of what Tyler went through after childhood would've been a much richer exploration of their world. Ultimately, it wasn't a bad experience or a great experience - it was... just an experience.

Again, candidate for a neutral vote on steam but as always will default to a downvote.
 

ketchup
0
85 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
22.1 hrs on record
Posted: 17 April, 2022
Kinda disappointing, especially if we consider this was made by the same team who made LiS.
Plot is pretty lazy, dialogues are just meh, characters are dull and not very likeable, because it's kinda difficult getting "close" to them.
So here's what it is: a pretty boring, preachy and downbeat story who leaves a lot to desire.
Music and landscape are pretty cool tho.
 

f.lategola
0
64 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 February, 2022
The story is really one sided. They try so hard to make Tyler look like the good guy when really, he should let go and move on. The whole thing is painting everyone EXCEPT tyler like the villains, when in reality tyler is a manipulator and an aggressive person. Would not recommend the game if you don't want to to constantly yell at the characters for being stupid and biased.
 

Sumol
4
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 27 February, 2021
Chekhov's gun. Mary-Ann’s shotgun

Don't forget to visit my Curator's page for more recommendations!


Chekhov's gun (Russian: Чеховское ружьё) is a dramatic principle that states that every element in a story must be necessary, and irrelevant elements should be removed.

What do we have here?

Here we have a thoughtfully written story (but which is more suitable for a film rather than an interactive game) which raises questions about LGBT community, family issues and other “hard” questions which people usually discuss with a therapist.
The story is about two twins which after dramatical events were separated for 10 years and now finally they are meeting up to sell the house where they spent their childhood.
The game consists of three chapters, which are really distinguished in manner of narrative from each other which unfortunately doesn’t serve the game well. The twins have a special ability which allows them to recapture their memories and to communicate telepathically for cheating on exams, to help them to understand what really has happened that night and years before their separation. Following the old memories we observe how Tyler and Allyson differently perceive their memories and all the skeletons in the closet which they find.


Chapter 2 intro 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: Fontrevi


Some technical stuff

The visuals are looking fantastic: the snow-covered mountains, frozen lakes, and lights yes-yes 10 years the lights in the house were still on. I guess the bill would be quite high in the house were what I enjoyed it the most.
Gameplay is a bit boring, and the characters are moving quite slow. The memories recapture didn’t work correctly for me all the time. There were few locations where firstly I had to spin around a few times and then I was able to find a point where I could “activate” memories. Also I experienced some issues in stacking in textures, especially in the wooden house so I had to restart the game.

Magnificent mountains view 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: Fontrevi


Some gameplay stuff

I was really excited that it is the same developer as Life is Strange (there is even an easter egg related to LiS) but Tell Me Why falls short not only of Life is Strange and also Life is Strange: Before the Storm.
I think the game had much bigger potential if there was bigger empathy of the main characters but as for me the supportive characters are looking better written.
While playing the game I was disappointed with the decision-making. In narrative games such as this one, being able to choose the option most suitable for you is the main reason for playing such a game. However, when the main feature isn’t presented as intended, the game loses its genre and removes the real reason for playing it.
Many times it wasn’t me who drove the story, but the story drove itself. I wanted to act differently, but the game couldn’t provide enough options or at least a more satisfying explanation of motives. Choice-selection wise the game is really poor and there are mostly black and white choices, which could be seen in the statistics at the end of the chapters (most of the decisions were on 80/20 ratio). In comparison, just remember how the choices made by players were balanced in Life is Strange where there were only “grey” options which are neither good or bad. And this, I believe, is the main limitation of the game and I told you why the game didn’t achieve that success as Life is Strange.
There are really two or three choices which really matter for the end of the story, which makes most of the dialogue meaningless and provides the questions but not the answers. It is like with (yes I’m gonna tell the same joke twice) Chekhov’s gun Mary-Ann’s shotgun – in the game many interesting moments but they fade away as they do not provide any continuation. Speaking about the real gun, 


That also affects the words from the annotation “their past is not what they remember” which boosted my general interest in the game. However, in the end of the game I was slightly disappointed that I got caught as I expected something else from the game.


The indoor lights 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: Fontrevi


A quick note for the achievements hunters

If you would like to complete the game 100%, I recommend don’t be lazy and exploring every corner in the rooms to collect all the wooden figures.
It is possible to replay all the scenes in the chapters to get some specific achievements, so don’t worry if you couldn’t solve some puzzles – you can come back after finishing the game.

Overall

As for me, the game is slightly overpriced. I recommend waiting for a sale. The game in general was enjoyable but the amount of limitations which I spoke about do not allow me to recommend the game to everyone.
If you like narrative games and have a few evenings to play a game, you can give this game a chance.
 

Fontrevi
96 products in account
2
33 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 20 February, 2022
This game made me angry on so many levels. The story is so completely muddled and confused, unfocused on what its message or even its core theme is. It seems like the intended point is the sibling protagonists' search for truth as to why their mother tried to kill them when they were children. Now that desire for truth, an explanation, is completely believable. However, their doggedness in searching for it is downright harmful, because this is a situation where there simply are no answers, and the fact that they are presented with them in the form of a bloody storybook puzzle is aggravating. Normally I don't fault a story for not being realistic, but in this instance where so many deeply affecting topics are being handled, such flights of fancy are borderline offensive.

I myself lost a parent around the same as Tyler and Alison did, an abusive parent with deep mental health problems. It was so hard to balance what they'd done with my limited knowledge of them, how could this have happened, there was no reason, etc. There were times where I theorised someone had even poisoned them, or that maybe it was all a lie. But no matter how long I spent thinking and searching for answers, there were none, because the only person with those answers was gone. The reality is that when someone gets to a point where they're willing to do something unthinkable to themselves or their children, they are no longer able to open up to anyone, they are trapped inside themselves and noone can ever know why they do what they do, for there is no real, logical reason.

But this story insists for eight hours that it is not a fruitless search, and that Tyler's constant pressuring of his sister into continuing an actively hurtful pursuit of truth is actually the correct stance. That Alison wants to stop is actually selfish of her, that she "owes it" to him to hurt her mental health for non-existent answers. Tyler is incredibly pushy and demanding of everyone around him who's just trying to help, and though it's understandable why, the writing never pushes him to make remands or grow, and just fuels his vendetta.

Outside of this main grievance, I'll admit, it's a fine looking game, one of the best maybe. The snow deforms beneath your character's feet in a more believable fashion than I've ever seen, and this game achieves what Life is Strange 2 failed in terms of making a rural part of America truly breathtaking at points. The facial animation has some hiccups, but mostly holds up well, and the performances that go along with it are on the whole, pretty decent. Tyler and Alison both have a tendency to be flat in moments that should demand extreme emotion, but it does improve towards the end of the game.

All that being said, you'll notice the last word of that paragraph is "game", and, well, I'd hesitate to call this one. Compared to Life is Strange (which, to all intents and purposes, this is a LiS game published by Microsoft instead), there are fewer puzzles, fewer dialogue choices, fewer actual plot changing choices, fewer interactions with the game in general. You walk around a small environment for a few minutes, maybe examine some details to earn a trite observation, then enter into a twenty minute cutscene where you will make one solitary dialogue choice, then rinse and repeat over each three hour chapter.

The central power the twins have is also thoroughly underwhelming. It really doesn't add any actual mechanics or even much of interest to the story. It's also very ill-defined. They can visualise their respective memories in the world to each other, but sometimes combine their memory powers to see a true memory? Sometimes they can even remember things they can't possibly, such as faces that were obscured to them (which helps fuel a pointless twist that made me laugh out loud later in the game).

Overall, this game is just not worth it. Yes one of the main characters is trans, hooray, but all the cries of this being the new gold standard of queer games is outrageous, erasing years and years of trans indie creators who have been fighting for depictions of their story and more inclusive experiences in general. Not to mention that it overshadows this actually being a poorly handled story of grief over a parental abuser.
 

EternalSunboop
2,717 products in account
0
28 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 January, 2022
It's basically another Life Is Strange game. There's a murder mystery, superpower, making choices, beautiful enviroment, romance, native tribe, LGBT character, childhood nostalgia, a little ecology lesson... So it should be an amazing game, just like LIS was, except somehow it doesn't work this time. I didn't feel like I cared enough about the characters, especially Alyson. You're watching an emotional story, the characters are troubled and sad and angry, they scream and shout but the emotion is not there. The choices are very plain, either be an extremely good person and apologize to everyone or be a d**k, there is not one difficult choice or any that would make you stop the game and think. And even if you choose to be nice and make peace with everyone, somehow your character will be upset and shouting in the following cutscene. The superpower is cool but not used well. I don't remember any music apart from "the investigation theme", it seems like it was just quiet the whole game. The puzzles seemed too easy, although I liked the whole Book of goblins idea. I felt like they tried hard to make a good game, used all the good ingrediences but just didn't make a good cake. I will still check out Dontnod's next creations as they proved they know how to make a masterpiece.
 

lenapetra
3
20 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
I would say this game is one of the weaker Dontnod games.
The story pacing its painfully slow and involves mostly 'fetch item', walk, talk, and sometimes using 'the voice'.
It felt like it was dragging on for the sake of adding play time or something. It would benefit to have a 'Directors Cut'.
the voice is mostly just small memory fragments used as hints for solving puzzles and remembering past events.

Game is really easy, no real fail state or consequences. Watch the whole thing on YouTube and save time/money. or skip it.
It would greatly improve gameplay if there were some QTEs and more puzzles/minigames.
It should take a page from some of the Hidden Object Games because i do enjoy playing those and they have less budget.

Previously played Life is Strange 2, Man of Medan, Little Hope. And much prefer those games to this one.

Like: Easy achievements i guess and personal story/journey.
Dislike: pacing, gameplay,
 

Drakenseng
0
27 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 October, 2022
Product received for free

I really wanted to enjoy this game. The story is interesting, I love the book of goblins, its art style and its way to portray the past and introduce, represent and provide insight to the people in town. The atmosphere of the setting, Alaska, and the family home is just beautiful and I would love to spend hours exploring and just relaxing.
But unfortunately, Tyler and Alyson are among the most annoying main characters I've had to put up with, these siblings are meant to be in their 20s but act like 16-year-olds, unable to communicate with others, be patient with others who experienced trauma, and they are always whining. I cannot relate to them or see reason in their actions and it takes me out of the game.
 

Kezz daddy
214 products in account
0
51 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 18 December, 2022
Product received for free

The game has great visuals and an amazing plot, but it just doesn't really catch me attention. I tried playing it for a while, but without any action in it, it feels just like watching an emotionally invested movie. I couldn't keep my attention in it the first time, let alone the second.

In short, great for people who love an emotional storyboard, terrible for people who enjoy action in their video games.
 

TintoMax
2
63 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Product received for free

*Ignore my time played, I got this game on the xbox game pass and decided to write my review here because steam is better in every way. *Oh and also maybe spoilers? Just assume there is.*

RIGHT, so I was really looking forward to playing this game when I first heard about it but after playing it I can strongly say that this game is probably the most boring, forgettable, and uninteresting games I have played in such a loooonnnggg time.
The characters are super bland and uninspired, the "drama" in the game is sooo forced, it is borderline cringe worthy, the story pacing was dreadful and didn't know when to start or end, and there was nothing to keep the player invested in the game at all! All the interesting bits that you want to know more about are not explained or explained extremely poorly and all the bits you don't care about are constantly forced upon you!
All the characters in the game are pretty nice and friendly, they are (for the most part) willing to admit if mistakes were made and apologise for saying insensitive things. They act as normal every day people. All except Tyler. If Tyler wasn't a main character that you play as, I would have assumed they were the antagonist of this game! Tyler is the only character that is consistently negative and hateful throughout the game and-- OMG DONT EVEN GET ME STARTED ON THE MOTHER SITUATION!

INCOMING RANT! This is more of a personal issue but I really hate the main character, Tyler. Everything about this character is awful. When you are playing as Tyler, you can have a nice and normal conversation with someone- get invited to a party, get asked how your day is, etc, and then suddenly Tyler will freak out over nothing and become super passive aggressive! Anywhere from calling them transphobic, lashing out towards them, or even just being pain rude and immature towards them! F's in chat for Sam. Everything to Tyler is a personal attack and he HAS to defend himself. Doesn't matter if they are sorry, Tyler has to have the last word and ruin this persons day.

This game was the biggest waste of my time. I couldn't wait for it to be over soon enough. I cared more about this dumb review then I did about anyone or anything in this horrible game. I freaking care about the dust bunnies under my bed more than I did about this story. This game was so frustratingly bad, and I hope no game like this is ever made again.
 

Küki Kuu
0
22 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
Product received for free

Great game but since 2020 they knew about the dead-end bug at the first part of chapter 3 and it is still not fixed. The conversation with Greggs can not be continued...
 

MHI ✓ Allkeyshop CSGOSKINS
167 products in account
0
23 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2021
The story is interesting, but the gameplay is absolutely awful. Why? Because nothing happens, that's why. The whole plot could be finished in just 1 chapter (~4 hours), but the pacing is slow and boring.
Characters: They are okay. I liked the way their traumas were portayed, it was believable.
Plot: It's actually interesting, it was the only thing that made me want to finish the game, even though the plot twist is too easy to figure out.
Puzzles: Awful. Not like the art of the "puzzle book" isn't nice, but forcing the player to read 200 stories just to figure something out is b-o-r-i-n-g. I couldn't even be bothered anymore near the end. There was a point when you need the "puzzle book" like 7 times in a row and I simply just looked up the answers, because I had no patience to read one more story from the book. If I want to read a book, then I sit down and read a book instead of playing a game.
Romance: It would have been cute if it wasn't the "fall in love in 1 second without actually knowing each other" type of romance, which I just simply hate.
The absolute worst part of the game, the pacing: SLOW, SO SLOW. The game forces you to do ♥♥♥♥ like looking at furniture for an hour, sorting furniture for another 30 minutes, stare at graves, look at boxes, count bleach bottles. When something finally happens, then it's interesting, but most of the game is just doing random ♥♥♥♥ that has nothing to do with the plot.
I don't hate the game, because the subjects and the story are interesting and I think it would have been a good novel or short movie, but as a game, it is just incredibly boring with all the fillers. I simply cannot give it a positive review when it's not enjoyable.
(Just look at the positive reviews: All of them say that the story is beautiful. None of them say that the gameplay is good. Coincidence? I don't think so.)
 

Bella
0
24 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2024
Couldnt get past the 45 minute intro... sorry
 

Joe
177 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 3

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Ain't nothing but a heartache
 

Jesus Борат :)
1,238 products in account
0
75 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Even for free, I simply cannot handle this ammount of cringe.
Whatever this demographic is, it is not for me.
 

秋
0
42 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 November, 2021
There's 1% game-play and 99% spectating. The LGBT story, songs and visuals of the game - were all nice. But this game feels like an average movie to watch. It's slow paced, you cannot run, you cannot skip endless boring dialogues, and it lacks any meaningful choice or fun game-play mechanic.
 

Somesan
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.1 hrs on record
Posted: 29 September, 2020
This game was okay. It seems like it had a lot of potential but just sort of fell flat. The story was interesting enough, but I felt like the beginning of the game, the whole focus was on Tyler's trans identity (no issue there), and then after Chapter One, it just doesn't really seem to come up again. The game just feels a little unbalanced in how they spread out the chapters.

If you can snag the game on a decent sale, I think it's worth playing through, but on the whole, you're not missing a whole lot by not playing it. I'd rate it maybe a 6/10.
 

Melface101
193 products in account
0
21 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 September, 2020
It is with a heavy heart that I am giving this game a negative review. I am a big fan of almost everything DONTNOD has done, but this was an absolute miss for me. The DONTNOD magic just isn't here. It feels like the entire story was an afterthought; the character's existence is the story. No big twists, no hard decisions, only a handful of characters and locations... There's just nothing here. Maybe if you're unfamiliar with previous DONTNOD games and go in with no expectations, you might find something to like. I tried and I couldn't find it.

The small, beautiful moments from the Life is Strange series just aren't here. No pondering at a bench or scenic view. Those spots are here, don't get me wrong, but there are very few with internal dialogue when interacting with them. Some objects you pick up have zero dialogue or reason to exist, while others get multiple lines from the two siblings, talking back and forth to each other, but bring nothing interesting to the story. The little "gameplay" segments don't make any sense in the context of what is happening, they only act as a distraction. I kept waiting for some big reveal or big twist but... What you see is what you get.

I love DONTNOD. I hope they can get back to form with their next release. This is a $40 (cad), 8 hour experience that I wish I could forget.
 

`. -julez.a
2,539 products in account
0
34 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 31 May, 2024
"Tell Me Why" this game aint good

free for june, free to be reviewed. price doesn't give a free positive review from me.

this game is disappointing, first off the story is a mess and the writing is terrible and mediocre and all combined are executed horribly in this game, this game hides so much to try not to show how little is in this game, especially in the obvious easy puzzles and the QTE'S.

for "Trans Representation" its not good ingame nor a good way to tell a trans person's story. thats all i can really state, and on top of that this game was hilariously boring and is a slog to playthrough, the pacing is just horrible and the exploration is underwhelming, and the characters are easily dull and forgettable.

the positives are the music and graphics, i do not have a issue with trans or gay people.

but regardless of intent or message, the execution should have been better, i would rather play life is strange over this game.
 

WolfPax
346 products in account
9
32 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2021
I couldn't get past the first chapter because the writing, dialogue and voice acting are so incredibly grating that I just couldn't continue with it. The plot seems interesting: a pair of psychic twins, one of which is transgender, explore the relationship they had with their abusive, transphobic and unhinged mother. That's as far as I got before I had to quit anyway.

Every other line someone says has to be some kind of whacky quip. Nobody can just have a conversation in this game or say something, they have to try to forcefully endear themselves to the player through what I assume DontNod think is "realistic" dialogue, leading me to believe that DontNod have never interacted with a human being in their lives.

Anyway, that's why I couldn't finish the first chapter of this game.
 

Arch Fox
0
158 people found this review helpful
19 people found this review funny 7

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 8 April, 2021
- The behavior of both main characters is weirdly "nerdy/edgy/quirky", it's making me uncomfortable to listen to them.
Example:
Tyler opens door, says: "Are you coming inside?"
Alyson *silently stares into his eyes and then after a long break answers in some "meaningful" voice: "I'm working on it..."
Who talks like this?!

- Dialogs are so incredibly, INCREDIBLY boring, that the game makes you feel like some stalker, who is watching the conversations of random people on the street.

- Same goes for monologs, just that they are even more boring.

- And NO, nothing of all of this is as meaningful/emotional/... as to be expected. It's just plain boring smalltalk/insiders.

- Superpowers are something completely normal apparently? The main characters aren't even surprised.

- Trans theme is nowhere as subtle as it would be in reallife, it's basically forced onto the player in a way that's completely annoying and almost condescending. Game thinks that the player is too stupid to understand that someone is trans after the first clue, so player receives 100 more.

___________________________________________
Conclusion: Good thing the first episode is free, because for the same price I can go outside and watch random people on the street talking extremely slow and weird about something that is meaningful to them, but not to society or anyone else.
 

thegrandgame
1,149 products in account
6
32 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
I wanted to like this game, but it was boring and tedious. If you're looking for a story you can have an emotional investment in, this ain't it.
 

CandiedGnat
0
111 people found this review helpful
130 people found this review funny 12

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 9 March, 2021
Ain't nothin but a heartache.
 

MoogicMaster
106 products in account
0
31 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 71

Not Recommended
3.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2022
FREE,but taste like ♥♥♥♥,full of politic right.What player want is a nice story, compared with Life is strange,this game is a ♥♥♥♥.
 

GIANT TRADE UP GINGER CAT
137 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.8 hrs on record
Posted: 14 March, 2021
It's not a game it's basically a very long boring movie telling a sad story about lives ruined by the usual 'free-spirit' life choices with some embedded puzzles and beautiful views of Alaska.
 

LiS2_4ever
0
145 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 16

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2024
I hate this game with a burning passion. Somehow, somewhere, the plot got lost in translation. It makes it seem okay to kill your mentally unstable mother because you're trans and you thought she didn't like your haircut. It is four hours I will never get back from my life. The gameplay itself was incredibly boring. It is more a diversity play than an actual story. I would never recommend this to anyone.
 

west_supermarket
0
38 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 July, 2021
Product received for free

The story is written incredibly sloppily and the characters are written to match. All the characters have perceptions, thoughts and feelings towards events, ideas and other characters and do complete 180 degree turns on them whenever the writers felt like they needed to.

The way they write the main trans character and his experience with being trans also feels incredibly shaky and disingenuous at best, like they did their homework with one real life trans person and then called it a day. It felt like they cared more about telling you Tyler was trans than it being an important aspect of his character.

The ending(s) felt extremely clumsy and like another choice game where the only choices that matter are the very last ones. I have not seen the other ending(s?) so I'm not sure if that's ENTIRELY the case, but that's what it felt like at the very least.

Play this if you'd like, but maybe don't expect a fantastic story or greatly written characters, LGBT or not. I got it for free, and I probably wouldn't recommend it higher than that price. If you're an LGBT individual going into this expecting great LGBT content like I was, try not to get your hopes up.
 

K-Smog
583 products in account
0
20 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2022
This one fails technically. At 113 game play minutes i have

- Established the baseline plot, who and why. Barely it seems.

And that's pretty much it. That is SLOW. Like Rings of Power slow. which brings me up to why the negative already and that is

- Game does not respect players time -> Skip buttons do not work
- Unplayable when playing in short sessions -> 'Journal icon means game is saving, do not quit the game when you see this' says the game yet the saves are much infrequent than this. You get annoyed when you notice that your latest 'save' is actually not a save and now you have to sit through 5+ minutes of cut-scenes.

And that's it. I see no need to even start to talk about the plot as 113 minutes in and i have only seen the baseline of it all and i will just stay at the technical side at this time as so many minutes for this little advancement is no-no. Now i may continue to play this game when i am absolutely sure i have enough uninterrupted time (never) as that is clearly a requirement this game has (but doesn't tell you up front).
 

Nax_o
2,170 products in account
4
34 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 November, 2020
Compared to what Dontnod has already made, this is garbage. Characters are dull, the story is badly written. And the dialogues? It almost feels like the developers were too lazy to do anything and thought that putting in a transgender character is enough of a plot.
I wasnt expecting new Life is Strange saga of course, however this game is just boring and lame.
If you like it, then Im happy for you, but I wouldnt recomment it to anyone really.
 

Arubek
0
26 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 December, 2023
An interesting premise is soured by a lack of interactivity and player-input

From Mass Effect 2 to The Last of Us , LGBTQ+ characters have played a crucial role in some of gaming’s best narratives, and the rise of accessible game development software has enabled further diversity to grow within the sector – although socioeconomic and cultural barriers still remain. This accessibility, and the backing of mainstream precedents, has fostered the conditions to create brilliant LGBTQ+ stories with new games coming out every month.

Tell Me Why (and I know the song you’re now playing in your head) has been facilitated by the above conditions and casts a spotlight on a trans-centred narrative. The male presenting main character, Tyler, navigates themes of childhood trauma, religious discrimination, and queer persecution as he seeks to discover why those that raised him came to hold transphobic views.

The game explores anti-LGBTQ+ sentiment in a rural Alaskan town, with many residents holding strong traditional conservative values. While some characters are outright hostile, including religiously intolerant characters, Tell Me Why provides some nuance with some older characters feeling more confused rather than holding any particular malice towards LGBTQ+ people.

Tyler has more than enough reasons to be cynical towards his fellow Alaskans, but several characters get unfairly caught in the crossfire. Some absolutely deserved to be fought against, such as family-friend Tessa, but occasionally a well-intentioned yet naive character would be unfairly rung out on the same level as those outwardly transphobic. LGBTQ+ people are understandably exhausted by having to fight to justify their very existence, and so I understand this from a realism point of view, but narratively I felt the game encouraged me to negatively judge any awkward working class character that didn’t regularly interact with LGBTQ+ people, such as the sailor in the beginning of episode 1.

Many of these issues stem from a lack of control over Tyler. Tell Me Why is a story-focused game, meaning the majority of gametime is spent in conversation and examining interactive elements in the gameworld for lore and backstory. However, there’s a lack of any real decision making throughout. Conversations feel like they play out identically no matter what you pick, leading you to exhaust all dialogue options rather than take genuine care into your decisions. It was so strict that I’d have preferred the game be fully on the rails, with less gameplay elements, rather than faux-interactivity. I didn’t feel I could put my own influence onto Tyler’s personality, and so I was entirely playing out his own pre-determined story with no real choice in how he reacts to other characters.

For this reason, I lost interest quickly in Tell Me Why. I felt I was going through the motions, rather than meaningfully engaging in the narrative. Perhaps it gets better after 3 hours, but I didn’t feel any incentive to bash on after this. I look forward to playing more of DONTNOD’s games, but this one didn’t land for me.
 

hi Swift
263 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2023
One of the most boring movie-games I've ever played.

There is simply no soul or any love in this game, characters are flat and not interesting, you can predict the story in the first episode already. Gameplay... oh god.

Huge score to people who've worked on environment, beautiful nature, nice and interesting places.
 

venk
0
106 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 11

Not Recommended
7.6 hrs on record
Posted: 21 October, 2020
Product received for free

Not even a heartache
From the developers of Life is Strange and Vampyr, Tell Me Why is an episodic adventure game where you control twins, Tyler and Alyson, as they revisit their old family home and relive the tragic events that lead to their separation. I'll be honest, I didn't like Life is Strange, and I gave Life is Strange: Before the Storm a negative review, so I was hoping that Dontnod would improve their future games and learn from their previous ones, especially in the animation department, but they didn’t with this one.

Pros
✔️ Interesting characters.
✔️ Beautiful graphics and a very detailed world.
✔️ Well-optimized, no technical issues.

Cons
❌ The story is very slow-paced, with cringe writing here and there.
❌ Needless supernatural abilities and boring fairy-tale that follows the main story.
❌ Almost all choices don't matter.
❌ Monotonous gameplay, with ridiculously easy puzzles.
❌ Awful lip-sync and facial animation.
❌ Forgettable soundtrack.

Story
The story takes place in a rural town in Alaska called Delos Crossing, and you switch perspectives between two characters, Alyson and Tyler Ronan. The twins are reunited for the first time in 10 years, after Tyler was sent away for the death of his mother, as they believe she tried to kill him for being transgender when he was young. They plan to sell their mother's home and move on to a new place, but they stumbled upon some remnants from the past that change their view of their mother and her motives, and it's up to them to find out what really happened on that dreadful day

Characters
Even though you play both characters, the story mainly focuses on Tyler; he is a trans man who wanted to transition when he was a kid, and thought his mother didn't like that idea and tried to kill him. As far as I know, this is the first playable transgender character in gaming. I initially thought that it would be the main focus of the game, but it subverted my expectations, and Dontnod handled it pretty good, so hats off to them.


The developers also included the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline number, and it shows up after you complete the game. 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: TFX


The side characters are interesting, such as Sam and Tessa; they are friendly and relatable, and most of them helped the twins during their mother's death. Their conversations and histories with the twins, and motivations, make them feel like real people you meet every day.

Fairy-tale & Supernatural abilities
Both Alyson and Tyler share an ability where they can telepathically communicate with one another. I guess to show how strong the bond is between them. They can also visualize memories in the real world, for some reason. Honestly, this felt unnecessary, and the same story could have been told without it (whispering instead of communicating telepathically and visualizing memories in their minds instead of in real-time). They could have told the story without all of this to make it feel more grounded, exciting and realistic.

They also managed to add a fairy-tale that ties with the story; the twins wrote the whole thing in a book with their mother before her death. The book is also used to solve most of the puzzles in the game. It felt dull and didn't really grab me. I guess they had to add it to lengthen the story, as it just drags on and tells it at a very slow pace. The game could've easily been 3 hours only, without the fairy-tale and supernatural elements.

Choices
Like in any interactive adventure games, the way to progress through the story is to choose certain actions and choices presented along the way. However, the majority of the choices were poor, in my opinion; most of them don't really matter, and the story doesn't adapt to them, there are no branching paths, they focus on tedious and unrelated things, and at the end of the day you either be a normal good person, or a pretentious dishonest douche who hates everyone (except for the final choice at least). I'll admit that there were a few choices that I liked, as they affect the bond level between the twins, but unfortunately, they don't really affect the ending.

Endings
The game has three chapters in total, with two distinct endings, which depend only on two choices in chapter 3. they are disappointing, since the bond level doesn't really affect the ending, and one of the final decisions didn't make sense to me ()

Other than that, the voice acting was alright, but the writing was a mixed bag and bland; some of the conversations between characters felt awkward at times, dialogue will make you squint your eyes and cringe, characters over-explain things that don't need to be, and the line delivery is sometimes off. The expressionless faces just add more salt to the wound.

Gameplay
The game mostly consists of cutscenes and fixed-camera conversations between characters. As for the gameplay portion, you can walk around, explore and interact with items and objects in the world. Although I admire the little details they added in the world, the problem is that it almost feels like a waste of time; when you interact with an object, either Tyler or Alyson will comment on it with a cringe joke, so I stopped interacting every object. There are a few puzzles in this game, some of which you have to use the fairy-tale book to get the right answer, but all of them are extremely easy and won't take much of your time. Overall, I think the gameplay parts of the Tell Me Why was not enjoyable.


The game is played in a third person perspective, with no HUD to make it more immersive. 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: TFX


Graphics
The game looks absolutely gorgeous; the world is so rich and detailed, you can leave footprints in the snow (and they stay there for a while), and the cloth physics is excellent. Dontnod nailed it in the graphics department. However, that doesn't apply to characters' facial expressions; some usually have expressionless faces, with only their mouths moving, and the lip sync is sometimes off. Dontnod's other games also suffered from this, and it explains why they didn't show characters talking on-screen in their trailers (same goes for their next game, Twin Mirror)


The stunning landscape of a small town in Alaska; snowy mountains, snow roofs, and a snowman of course. 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: TFX


Technical
Laptop: Omen HP 17t, GTX 1070, Intel I7-7700HQ, 16 GB RAM, Windows 10 Home
The game worked well and ran beautifully. No issues to report.

Soundtrack
Life is Strange and Life is Strange: Before the Storm had some great songs in their soundtracks, but that's not the case for this game; they are forgettable, bland, basic and none of the songs stood out to me (one song, Stop The Stars by Tiny Deaths, was fine I guess, but not great). I don't know what emotion they tried to convey with their music; they are just that bland.

Additional Details:
Total playtime	7.5 hours
M&K or Controller	Both work fine
Offline mode	Yes
Trading cards	None
Games Saves	Automatically

Final Thoughts
One step forward, two steps back, that's how I would describe this game. Life is Strange, with all its faults, is a much better game than this; the writing is uninspiring, choices don't matter, the ending is disappointing, the gameplay is lacking and the soundtrack is forgettable. Definitely not worth the asking price.

for more quality reviews like this, follow our curator page, Devils in the Detail.
 

TFX
1,826 products in account
15
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 September, 2023
Product received for free

Story is mid. Less choices than other games in the genre. Animations are janky.

4/10
 

MrSythos
136 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 June, 2023
Tell me why I played in this game for almost 2 hour
 

Hetman
152 products in account
0
56 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2021
Played this with a friend on another platform.
DontNod may have had good intentions, but this is a big miss. Stilted and bizarre dialogue, nonsensical and overcomplicated "plot," thoroughly bad pacing with neck-breaking levels of tonal whiplash, alarming and narratively unnecessary scenes of explicit abuse and harm, pretty questionable LGBTQ representation with some outright harmful tropes, and generally shallow and unlikeable characters across the board, often normalizing or even championing unhealthy interpersonal relationships and behaviors. Additionally includes myriad weird and unnecessarily complicated gameplay elements that exist pretty blatantly to draw out the runtime and do nothing to deepen the experience; if anything damaging the already fragile immersion.
There are some good moments sprinkled in here, but it doesn't add up to a positive experience in any way, and even at the price of free (which it is at time of writing) I don't think this is in any way worthy of your time. Look somewhere else for your narrative-driven story. This doesn't pass muster on a lot of the basics, let alone being positive representation for LGBTQ. GLAAD should have known better than to give this their stamp of approval.
 

Soli
0
45 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 25 August, 2021
Product received for free

In nutshell - This game feels like watching an average modern "girl-teen" TV show.
It's not bad by any means (I actually enjoyed it), but as a video game I find it... weird?

Essentially I can see that lots of people would easily find this game to be more on a boring side, which is why I will not recommend it unless you already played story-driven games before (that don't have much action).

Cons:
❌ I don't feel like I had many branching options, nor that my choices matter at all
❌ Feels very linear, like watching a TV show
❌ Story is interesting at first, but it quickly becomes kinda boring
❌ Lack of real tension / never felt any danger

Pros:
✔️ Beautiful environment & art style
✔️ Good music
✔️ Decent dialogue, and enjoyable characters
✔️ Goblins story book - whoever made it good job to you! :)
 

Gramps
132 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 19 February, 2022
Next time with more choices that matter?

Initially this game started very interesting with a murder plot and 2 traumatized siblings but sadly missing real choices and a kind of a slog mechanic they brought us with the "story book" which you always have to finish even if you wanna rather continue the real story makes it not as good as Life is Strange.

Dontnod is well known for their brilliantly written story based adventure game Life Is Strange which had loads of choices to be made that actually mattered. Some more and some less but they still mattered.

Tell me Why on the other hand always feels like all your choices did change nothing in the outcome unless you make it matter in your head somehow.

Just like in LIS they implemented a "gift" our protagonists have but that too is sadly not as good implemented as well you guessed it LIS.




The game has some enjoyable parts too like the beautiful winter landscape and some really dramatic moments but sadly it does not come close to Dontnod's older work.

PS: steam should change their yes/no options for reviews. As people already suggested we need at least a mixed button with optional leaning towards positive, negative and the such.
 

Torment
0
23 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
5.0 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
This game is terrible; I think the first life is strange was an accident because everything don't nod made after in a similar format failed to capture what made it such a good game.
Firstly, the most glaring issue is pacing; the first game always managed to get straight to the point, Chloe gets shot within the first 30 mins of the game Max receives her powers. Before the first episode even ends, you have the Rachel amber conspiracy, Max's powers, Nathans's drug problem already set up. You were never stuck in an area doing nothing, you could look around and read things, but the plot was always moving when you were ready.
Your power is cut scenes in "tell me why"; you spend the first 4 hours wandering around a house.
The most egregious is the convenience store where you have to walk around looking for cut scenes; it's tedious and annoying.
The second problem is this dual protagonist; the Max/Chloe dynamic worked because you were Max first and foremost, so you had a degree of separation from Chloe. You also suffered solely for your choices.
In this game, you alternate between shooting yourself in the foot and having a chip on your shoulder about it. You can make a choice as Tyler, then switch to Alyson, and suddenly for "plot," Tyler negates your prior intention and causes a conflict.
It means you aren't invested in either because there are four main characters; the Tyler and Alyson you play, and the Tyler and Alyson in the cut-scenes.

Tl;DR don't bother with this game or this studio; they don't know what they're doing.
 

Wayeb
152 products in account
0
42 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2022
Product received for free

Beautiful artwork and some nice puzzles. But they are too few and the game focus is mostly on the story than anything else. And this is were the game is lackluster. Characters are weak and a bad Romance story is shoved on to us unaccessary. Basically a very cliche game with a very unsurprising ending.
 

BlckSabbath
31 products in account
0
71 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 5

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 16 April, 2024
Tell me why this game is a snorefest:

Boring story, SLOW pace, dull characters, somewhat pointless decision-making. Dialogues aren't great either. Also, making Tyler's whole personality be "I'm trans, deal with it" without exploring anything else is a disservice to LGBTQ representation in games...

Other than that, the game is visually gorgeous, has nice music tracks and cozy settings. It does great at establishing the wholesome sibling bond between the MCs as well.

Wouldn't recommend buying this, unless on sale.
 

Frandaero
179 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 6 March, 2021
Stilted dialogues full of nerve-grating negativity by Alyson and clunky exposition by both protagonists. Cutscenes that undo your decision (e.g. an apology to Alyson that I would never have chosen in a dialogue option). Weird puzzles that totally don't fit the story and circumstances of the story. I stopped at some point early on and won't resume. This game looked far more interesting that it turned out to be.
 

Adun
66 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
If you the kind to like Life is Strange, you'll probably like this. Honestly, it's okay. Could be better, could be worse and in all honesty I expected much worse. Main issue lies in how ungodly boring everything is, the "supernatural" aspect is simply the power to remember and telepathy. That's it, they don't even use it in an interesting way. The characters are meh, but I'll give credit to the actors for being decent. They could have elevated the story more with the Book of Goblins and "supernatural" powers, by the end of the game I had already predicted all the plot points and was left disappointed at the direction it took. Overall, it's a mediocre 5/10.
 

D o h n J o e
319 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 August, 2021
I've been brewing on this game since I played it around last Christmas. I've come to the conclusion that though I had somewhat of a decent experience playing it, it's still super hard to take seriously. It's nice seeing positive representation in video games though combined with the wonky facial animations and unbearable dialogue at times it's really only a game you can play once before you realize how dumb the whole experience was weeks later.

Not to mention that DONTNOD's whole thing is their games give you choices to impact the ending of the game and literally none of the choices you make effect the ending except the very last choice you make in the entire game. And with the exception of a relationship with a side character but other than that the choices are pointless.
 

Soda
196 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 7 March, 2023
One of the biggest issues with "Tell Me Why" is the pacing. The game feels slow and dragged out, with long stretches of dialogue and exploration that fail to keep the player engaged. While the story is intriguing, the game takes too long to deliver its narrative, resulting in a lack of tension and excitement.

Additionally, the game's mechanics are clunky and unrefined. The puzzles are simplistic and repetitive, and the gameplay feels like an afterthought, with little to no challenge or depth. The character animations and voice acting also leave much to be desired, with stiff movements and flat delivery that fails to bring the characters to life.

Another issue with "Tell Me Why" is its lack of player agency. The game's narrative is heavily scripted, with very little room for player choice or consequence. While the illusion of choice is present, the game ultimately funnels the player towards a predetermined outcome, resulting in a lack of replayability.

Don't play this crap
 

Clarence
0
15 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.2 hrs on record
Posted: 9 July, 2021
Product received for free

Tell me why was the game so boring
 

Migsu
715 products in account
1
30 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2022
I know I didn't play the game for long, but that is because the characters didn't seem that interesting or realistic. Also Tyler's entire personality seemed to come from his sexual identity. That's not creative.
 

alexweebs19
171 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Graphics: as expected in 2021.
The game itself: boring.
 

korifg
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 December, 2020
Nice and interesting characters and premise, horrible handling of the story. The mystery is barely a mystery, the twist is way too expected and nonsenstical, and the ending is just plain bad. I applaud dontnod for having a good trans character but they do nothing with it.
 

MrFlups
0
9 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.9 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2024
Extremely unlikeable characters, with awful general world-building writing and stupid inconsistencies with how powers work. What the ♥♥♥♥ do you mean the main characters have telepathy and the power of memory, but remembered everything wrong? Are they stupid?
 

BigBoiJohnson
298 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.4 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2021
REVISED: DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY! Just watch on youtube if you are really interested. This game is VERY BORING! Even when the plot twists come or big reveals you just dont care because the story is boring. Nothing exciting happens....you keep waiting for it to get better an it doesnt. This game could of been amazing but I feel the writers just suck. Shame....


I don't like to leave bad reviews but this game is really boring. I have finished only the first ep and may change this but I am just completely bored with it. I wanted to like it, its beautiful but the writing is just blah. Even when there was a big reveal at the end of the first episode I just didn't care. I loved Life Is Strange, Heavy Rain, an pretty much any Telltell Game so its not the issue of the style of game, it just comes down to not interesting. I feel that no mater what I do I don't really change anything in the game, the mechanics are boring, at times I find myself looking at my phone while I wait for the scene to just finish. I wouldn't recommend spending 20$ for this game. I did get it for free and still left it a bad recommend....that's saying something.
 

SpAzArDoUs
433 products in account
0
19 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2021
Tell me why this game is so boring?

Boring nonsensical plot. Terribly slow pacing. Cringe-worthy performance from one of the side characters. Game is full of infuriatingly pointless tasks and conversations. Wasn't worth it even though it was free.
 

o_O
0
12 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2024
As a huge fan of the life is strange series, I was ready to jump into this excitedly. I was beyond underwhelmed and it became so cringe, I had to stop paying all together. As a member of the LGBT, I felt this game as a performance rather than a sincere attempt to portray a trans character. Everything is:
Something happened and its all because the character is trans. Every book is about trans people, every sticky note even. I wanted this character to have more depth than "I was a kid and now i am trans".
Overall, I think this game was an insult to trans people. They are more than just trans. They have personalities.
 

KyllJ0y
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 27 August, 2022
Not to bad of a game. Really slow and not much of anything to do. Kinda a boring story.
 

Dragon Trucker
0
13 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.7 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2024
Im sure someone who could relate to the content could enjoy it; however, I found it so incredibly boring that it felt like a chore. Its slow, not very entertaining, and the main characters suck.
 

-E-
65 products in account
0
58 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 March, 2021
It depends on what you are looking for - this is an interactive story with lots of walking around and dialogue that you can't fast forward through. The characters are well acted and the visuals are nice though. If you're not interested in game play, then you might enjoy this. It also manages to cram in some political messaging (gun control, global warming, etc.), but that kind of thing has been running rampant in pretty much all media lately... It really takes me out of the story when that happens..
 

wielandsmith
0
13 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
IF YOU ALREADY PLAYED...READ THIS
OK so I am going to give a realistic review of the game and not this bs that everyone keeps giving. Yes there are some goods to the game but there is mostly negative to the game. Lets start with the negatives.
PROS
--The pros is that the MAIN characters are great, they obviously worked on them very well. One of them has bad features at the start but gets better over time.
--The other pro is that the story gets really good after chapter 2. So yeah the story for chapter 3 is good. as in the story advances and actually gets interesting.
CONS
--Choices are probably the worst thing in the whole game. There is a point in the game where choices have to make you stop and think. Maybe pause just to double think it. But almost every single choice in the game is a dead straight answer besides the final one. Either be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ or be nice. And in the case of this game where you need to get answers, I'm not exactly sure everyone is going to be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. I mean just look at the achievements. Why do you think only 3.6% of players had the twins bond broken. Because if aren't going for a funny Scumbag twin run for youtube you wouldn't choose ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ choices.
--Emotions have to be awful as well. Unless you are an extremely emotional person and cry at every little thing then fair enough you will think this game is like crying a river but for other people its not like that. There was emotional moments about the mother but they put it too early in the game for that. I didn't care for the mother then because for some reason the writers put it so that they roast the ♥♥♥♥ out of the mother but then cry at her grave. So are you sad or angry main characters, make up your mind. I even joined live streams of people playing the game. One guy, The Clarx, was playing the graveyard scene and I asked after it was done, was that emotional for you and he said, his words btw "That was supposed to be emotional?" Yet again the only time you actually feel emotion is when you find out who the father is. But like what is this a bad episode of Maury? But even then I think Maury would make the game more interesting. Not sad at all, kinda heartwarming at times but meh not all that much.
--Secondary characters are more annoying than anything (besides Michael he chill). Tessa is an annoying character who I don't want to talk to. Also remember what I said about ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ choices before yeah well I didn't forgive her but never expected Tyler to lash out but I should have known better with this game. Ah yes officer Eddy Brown what an uncle. He made breakfast for me he cool. Officer Dee and Greggs felt more like time wasters. Like you know when you watch a show and they have filler episodes? Yeah thats what they were like talking to them.
--The Price. At the moment I am aware that the game is free for episode 1 and only $10 due to a deal, but originally they had it listed at $30. Which is mind blowing to say the least. The Walking Dead is $15 originally and constantly on sale for $3 and that is worth more than Tell Me Why at $30 or $10. In my opinion if you have a spare $30 in your account wait for a life is strange game or walking dead game or even the wolf among us or Detroit become human to go on sale and buy that. You are losing money if you buy this. The game is not good. If you like it then congrats you like a bad game! And to anybody saying "It won an award," well ok do me a favor and look up what games were in the same category as it and tell how it wasn't supposed to win. I'm not purposefully hating on this game I am just trying to be a kind person and not make you waste your money. Buy a better game please.
 

Element
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 October, 2021
You like the adventure / gameplay style of the developer Dontnod other episodic games?
Then it should be no suprise, that from this side it is recommended to also buy this one.

The sound and graphic is beautiful and manage to really bring the place of the story to life.
At first I thought only three episodes instead of mostly five will make it a shorter game,
but with around nine hours with no (felt) parts to stretch the game it is worth its ask full price.
The playtime is can be up to 11 hours, if you try to get both endings (or all the achievements).

But I have two problems with the game, that let me not recommend the game. [Spoilers following]


















 

Steppenwolf
666 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 19 December, 2021
Tell Me Why in part has a powerful story to tell and has the stage to bring insight to those inside and outside the subject matter.
It's a shame this is coupled with a game that fails it's predecessors.
Tell Me Why has failed to deliver an experience comparable to Life is Strange.
This game is heavily story driven.
The Twins stories are stimulating but let down by the execution.
At first (CH1) you are able to explore and interact with objects, allowing you to delve into a characters past and giving you an deeper insight into the character in question or the story at hand.
However I felt that in the subsequent two chapters the amount of object interaction for the purpose of deepening the story reduces.
Instead the bulk of the "story telling" comes in the form of interactions with NPC's and the Twins special connection.
Whilst these two methods in theory are fine to portray a story and it's intricate details, my experience with TMW diminished their effectiveness. This was due to the placement of my "choice of reply" text on-screen as (in the case of longer replies) some of the text was missing (off the edge of the screen), and with the added time constraint to answer I felt unable to consider my answer before choosing.
With the way the save function works replaying a particular scene just to hear a single conversation again can mean you have to go through prior conversations or interactions before hand.
The "Memories" that also portray the story appear to have a flaw in that I seem to have been able to, in some scenes access those memories in no particular order complicating my understanding of the whole picture because the info i'm receiving is jumbled up.
Tell Me Why has puzzles to solve throughout the game and I really enjoyed the puzzles in LiS, however the puzzles in TMW whilst satisfying to solve are lacking the interactive complexity found in LiS.
For example: in TMW you mostly interact with a single object and perform some action or actions, with the exception of the "archive room". In LiS some puzzles involved interaction with multiple objects in order to preform a final single action to achieve an end goal.
I Loved the story and wished there was more, by this I mean more content, my game time difference between LiS and TMW is large.
In addition to content, each chapter from 1 through to 3 seemed to have less interaction from me and more cut-scenes to watch respectively.
Included and portrayed in the story are a few "Real Life" social groups, however I felt a slight bias from one to another by portraying each social group with the traits of the character connected to that social group. Bias has no place in any media, and the slight changes to dialogue and scenes in order to remove this sense of bias would not detract from the main story at all.
With the addition that TMW does not support full 21:9 aspect ratio in the current market further disappointment is experienced.
To sum up, I can't recommend that you purchase TMW.

 

Garp02
97 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2021
Product received for free

NOTE: This game was obtained for free as part of a Pride Month promotion in June 2021.

Tell Me Why is a slow-paced adventure game developed by DONONOT, the creators of Life is Strange 1. The game’s gameplay is very similar to LiS1’s, but features some new twists and a completely different story. How does it actually stack up, though?

Gameplay is a fairly typical modern point and click game. Your character is in a certain location, and in order to proceed, he or she must explore the area to learn more about the area, discover a problem or create a plan, and find a way to solve the problem or execute the plan. It’s simple, but fun.

You also have conversations with other people, where you can pick responses to what characters say. The controls for this can be a bit awkward, as you have to press a button on initiate a conversation instead of the response prompt appearing automatically, but it does allow for things like responding to someone while you explore instead of accidentally canceling a response prompt because it appeared just as you began examining something.

The choices affect you make affect small details of how the story works. For example, being nice to characters will make them more willing to open up, while being a jerk will not. However, no matter how you play, it will have very little impact on the ending, which is determined solely by a choice you make at the very end and a choice near the middle of the third chapter. It’s disappointing to see that the developers didn’t really learn from Life is Strange and made most of your choices irrelevant at the end again.

There is also an option that lets you psychically communicate with your twin during conversations in order to unlock alternate dialogue trees and ways to solve problems, such as calming down a situation that could lead to the person you’re talking to becoming belligerent. Unfortunately, this cool feature is underused, making it feel more like a gimmick than a proper part of the gameplay.
The twins’ psychic abilities can also be used to conjure up memories in order to advance the plot. These are not only used to create in-game flashbacks to events (which is important, since this game is all about discovering what actually happened in the past with the twins and their mother), they’re also used choose how certain events played out. While fun, your choices don’t really lead to much.

Finally, there’s a sort of “karma” system that tracks your responses on certain things. In theory, the idea is that certain choices that are nice to the twin you’re not playing as will improve their bonds, while ones that are antagonistic to the other twin will weaken the bond. Part of the ending changes depending on how strong the bond is at the end of the game. While a neat idea in theory, most of the “correct” choices are about sucking up to Tyler and saying he’s right, even in situations where he might be wrong or the answer is not clear. Only a few “correct” answers are about how Alyson feels, so the mechanic feels more like “how much can you kiss Tyler’s butt” like you’re trying to befriend a companion in a Bioware game than actually building a strong bond between the twins.

The game’s story focuses on a set of twins. One of them killed his mother when she attempted to murder him as a child ten years ago, and is now leaving juvie in order to help his sister, Alyson, sell the family’s home. However, the events of 10 years ago are not what they seem and the people in the small Alaskan town the twins live in are unwilling to discuss what happened that day and the months leading up to it.

The game is as it’s peak when it has the characters directly involved in the main plotline, investigating what really happened the night the twins’ mother was killed. Looking through old memories and documents to piece together what happened and using what you’ve learned to get the truth out of people unwilling to spit it out is very fun. Chapter 2 is filled with the nitty-gritty of the investigating, making it the most fun chapter out of the three.

However, the game does not spend all of it’s time on the main plotline. In fact, the main plotline does not truly start until the player is deep in the first chapter! Instead, it spends a lot of time focusing on more personal moments. This would be fine if the moments were fairly short, but they end up eating too much time in the story. Having moments to cool down between investigations is fine, but these parts seem to drag on forever with nonsense like “slowly walk around the twins’ house while labeling things and listening to the twins make witty comments with each other”, “calmly explore a general store”, and “yet another dull romantic sequence with Tyler’s love interest”. These makes the game feel like it’s more interested in spinning its wheels than moving things forward. Life is Strange 1 managed to hit a good balance between investigations and more personal moments, so it’s disappointing to see Tell Me Why completely fumble it.

Early on in the story, the twins (re)discover an old book of homemade fairy tales created by them and their mother called “The Book of Goblins”. What should’ve been a cute background element instead plays a vital role in both the gameplay and the plot. At some points, your characters will have to solve a puzzle, and conveniently, the solution is found in one of the stories in The Book of Goblins. The solutions are not just in the story, but also in the art included in the stories. These slow down the game significantly as you crawl though the story the game tells you to look through to find a solution. It feels like a hackened way to tie the gameplay into the overall story that just drags the game down as a whole.

The Book of Goblins leads to another issue with the story; there are a ridiculous amount of mechanical puzzles in a cabin located far away from civilization. It’s understandable that the developers need to add puzzles to the game so there’s more to do besides examine objects and talk to people, but it’s pretty ridiculous that a two-story cabin seems to have as many obtuse puzzles and mechanical devices as Resident Evil’s Spenser Mansion or Raccoon City’s Police Department HQ. Did the twins’ mom work for Umbrella Corporation or something?

The biggest issue with the story is how much it makes Tyler the center of the world without giving some sort of good reason why. Based on how the story acts, you’d think that Tyler is some chosen one that everyone needs to ass-kiss, but he’s just some nobody that never earns the characters lining up to stroke his ego. To his credit, he is the main agent that keeps the plot moving forward, but the amount of focus and love he gets becomes grating fairly quick.

Tyler is special enough that he gets his own romantic interest, Michael. Michael is probably the most pointless character in the series. The scenes he’s in drag the story and pacing to a crawl and contribute almost nothing to the overall story. His voice acting is about a step or two about porn acting, and he dresses like a tremendous tool.

Tell me Why starts off with an interesting premise, but seems to be unable to stick to what makes it work best. Between underutilizing an interesting mechanic, too much focus on one of the twins, and uneven pacing, the story and gameplay is just too uneven to really recommend.
 

DUNCAN DONUTS
766 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
I really tried to get into this game. I really liked the Life is Strange stuff and so I honestly thought that this would be similar. I was very wrong. I could not get into it. I was bored out of my mind. I am very thankful that the first part was free, so that I do not have to go begging for a refund!
 

SaGinTa
203 products in account
0
19 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2021
Product received for free

I did not feel connected to the characters or the game.
I could not relate to them or the game.
Throughout the game I felt like the dev's drilling in my brain

Maybe it's because I'm not G A Y.

Life is strange...

Each chapter is around 2:30hrs
 

RedSiskin
0
17 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 December, 2022
Product received for free

gameplay so boring i passed out and napped in the middle of episode two
 

I punch metal for fun
90 products in account
0
15 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.5 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2024
Product received for free

boooorinnnngg
 

snÒÓmr
2,753 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2021
Product received for free

I want to choke both main characters to death. How can they be so dumb, ignorant and rude? They care only about themselves and push away people who try to be friendly with them. Some scenes pissed me off so much. I understand that this game was meant to raise awarness of LGBTQ+ community and mental problems BUT it was very badly done. I think some people will hate trans people even more after playing this game
 

AggdyFehg
224 products in account
2
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2022
For free is a one and only good price for this game, because if I would buy it, I would literally cry - it was THAT bad.
Whole game is just about nothing, cinematics are so long that u can go for a 20 minutes long nap and it would be still going (ofc while it lasted completely nothing happened or they were talking about some boring kid's story or one situation from the past, that is a point of whole game, but it's just not interesting at all).
Main characters are just so plain and story is dull. All of it could be told in 1, max 2 hours of gameplay, not 10 or so hours filled with 450 too long cinematics.
 

Lóriena
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.0 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2023
The story is interesting, and the characters aren't bad - but the gameplay really is. You watch the plot unfold with very little options to actually influence it, apart from mostly annoying riddles and really horrible mini games (button mashing). When you do have a choice between different things to say, you don't know what it is you're choosing; you might want to say something nice and instead go off on someone who doesn't deserve it at all. That makes the choice pretty useless.
Despite the good artwork and atmosphere, in the end I was just glad that I had finally managed to finish the game.
 

Keks
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.2 hrs on record
Posted: 16 February, 2021
i was excited for this game bc i really loved life is strange but this game was disappointing. the graphics are really pretty and i liked the characters but it was super slow and the story wasnt that interesting to me. i wouldnt say its a bad game i just think it wasnt for me
 

paffae
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 20 March, 2021
The game doesn't tell you why.

On a more serious note, I am very disappointed with this game.
I loved Dontnod's previous work Life is Strange and while I wasn't expecting this game to be even close to being as good as LiS, I was still expecting it to be somewhat good.
This is mediocre at best, poor storytelling. Lots of wasting time around and useless intrigue that lead to nothing in the end. This could've easily been a 3 hours movie, instead it's a 10 hours game.

The "gameplay" sections felt more like a chore to play through instead of adding something interesting to the story. Unlike Life is Strange where the gameplay added to the immersion & gave you interesting choices that somewhat impact the story, this game does none of that.
Gameplay feels like an afterthought and none of the "choices" you make really matter. The story will play out exactly the same for everyone and none of it impacts anything around you.
There are some puzzles to solve in this game and while the game does give you the option to skip all of them, I still want to point out that they are incredibly boring to solve. I bought a game, not a book.

So, how's the story? Well, if I'm being honest it has good moments for sure. I liked parts of it and some scenes are definitely worth viewing but they are so few and far between that ultimately I don't recommend you play through all the useless crap to get to them.
There are some characters that I liked and most of them have interesting dialogue but some of them I couldn't bring myself to care for. The playable characters are fine but I found it hard to connect with them as they would always talk about memories we, the player, don't know about and act as if we know what happened. It just feels awkward to hear them talk about these stories we know nothing about as if we were there. I found it frustrating and also, the intrigue drags on so much to the point where I was screaming at my screen "JUST TELL ME WHY ALREADY!".

Graphics are beautiful. That's about the only thing I can 100% say is good about this game, it looks gorgeous. Environments felt lived in & were always a pleasure to look at. Atmosphere for the most part is done very well as you'd come to expect from this type of game. Music was pretty good too, came in at the right moments and was never overused or unnecessary.

Conclusion, episode 1 is now free to play so i'd recommend you play it for half an hour and decide if you care enough to keep going. 50% of the players don't have the episode 1 completed achievement so I'll let that speak for itself.
 

lollipop
0
13 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.8 hrs on record
Posted: 12 September, 2022
Just a quick info: If you want to play this game, try to get it for free or something. There have been multiple times already that "Tell Me Why" has been one of those games you could get for free on several different stores - especially when it's "Pride Month" as there's not too many games that much on the nose with the whole topic - plus it probably isn't too much of a loss, either to do that. Now onto the real deal:

Tell Me Why is about the twins Alyson and Tyler Ronan. They both grew up in a pretty small town in kind of a make-shift house with their mother Mary-Ann. Right at the beginning of the game you get a glimpse into their childhood. Tyler as a kid (and before transitioning) is telling a cop about how he stabbed his own mother, because she tried to kill him for cutting his hair - presumably because she couldn't deal with his trans-identity. Fast forward to the present where you see how Tyler is now getting out of a youth facility for troubled kids and Alyson, his sister, is picking him up in order to drive up to their old mother's house that they intend to put on sale in order to get rid of the unpleasant memories of the past and actually get some cash to get their lives started. While Tyler was more or less locked away in the youth facility, Alyson got adopted by the cop who interrogated Tyler that night - police chief Eddy Brown. Alyson's and Tyler's relationship is somewhat strained after all these years and you as the player now get to experience what will become of it. Of course, you'll also try to find out about the twins' past with their deceased mother.

Well, the whole premise of the game sounds interesting and I truly enjoyed the views. But that's probably about it. The gameplay is pretty much standard for Dontnod games. You get to choose between two options and then see if the game punishes or rewards you for it. I actually did like the game for the first half maybe? That was mostly because of the mysteries surrounding the twins' mother though. But after a certain time, I felt like the payout could never be as great as the whole buildup to it and at the end I did feel as if my guess was pretty much right on the money here. A lot of the things people hide from you seem pretty stupid when it comes to how traumatized Tyler and Alyson were as kids from assuming certain things that simply weren't true. While sure, Tyler was practically locked away, I don't really understand why Alyson never had a heart to heart with the people she saw every day and who could have talked with her about her mother and the night she died. The gap between that past event and "now" as in the time period you are playing this game in, feels too large to make sense when it comes to all the stuff you find out in the game. Also the whole thing about Tyler being trans AND struggling with it even more due to his mother and the circumstances of her death made so many story elements and character decisions over the years seem even more nonsensical to me. Like I wanted to take those people and shake them real hard, screaming into their faces: "Talk you ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ piece of ♥♥♥♥! Ever heard about communication?!" Especially because it didn't take thaaaat long to get it out of them now. So what? Are a dozen years of trauma and misunderstandings a joke to you people?

All in all, you get to meet all these characters who are very secretive about what happened in the past and it's nice to get to know them and try to figure all that stuff out, but meh. It's nothing groundbreaking. You don't get enough time with the characters to actually come to like them or even care about them and the romance option they shove into the game felt pretty nonsensical to me - especially how you only get to say: Yes or No instead of well going like: "Sorry, but this is a highly emotional time for me now so can we hold off on any talk about romance - especially because I've only known you for like 2 days top?!" It felt a bit...off all things considered.

And even though I mostly liked the twins as characters and their bond, I must admit that most choices felt kind of nonsensical to me, as I was always limited to do one thing in order to not upset one of the siblings. There was usually no other way than upsetting the person in front of you enough to fight or simply agreeing with them to keep the peace. What I like in choice-based games is when they aren't so clear-cut. You struggle with a choice, because all options feel valid to you, not because you want to see the good or bad ending - at least in my humble opinion. It's also nice to not automatically know what answer leads to which outcome; of course, there's also a limit as to how much unpredictability you want here, but if the outcomes logically make sense and maybe the game isn't too long so that you can easily try out a different option later, I think it's great to show more nuances to your decisions, because they in turn show that your characters have more depth than you might think.

Plus: Most of the supernatural looking stuff just fell away by being depicted as some kind of coping mechanism the twins used to deal with their surroundings in the past even though it is clearly just a way to hide certain characters from you for the sake of the flimsy story in the game in order to stretch everything out. Like: Sure, after so many years things get blurry, but remembering a key person they knew and interacted with on a nearly daily basis only as some kind of bad fairytale character their mom had told them about seemed too far of a stretch.
Oh, and this game loves its plot twists which rather than exciting me made me feel bored out of my mind after some time. “Ooooh, this thing wasn’t that thing – AGAIN? I totally didn’t see that one coming…” After the first half, I only wanted it to be over to get this game off my list.

The story didn't really land with me. And that’s a bad thing in a game where story is everything and there's no real gameplay mechanic to turn it around.

Well, that's just what I think though. I know there are people liking this game and enjoying it and all the power to you! I did, too - in parts. I just didn't feel like this game was as good as it's made out to be. After some time I just ceased to care about what happens to the characters or the plot in general. But at least I can say that this game doesn't have an annoying Chloe in it. Scratch all I said before - 10/10, I do not have to deal with an obnoxious, annoying Chloe Price. What do I want more out of a game by Dontnod?
 

Jason
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2021
Product received for free

A very weak story overall. While Dontnod seems to want to tackle difficult and emotional tales, its pretty clear that their writing department isn't up to the task.

The game starts by introducing one of its two protagonists, a trans man named Tyler who 

The key mystery of why the twins' mother tried to kill Tyler? 

What remains is a drawn out game where you're solving a mystery that barely makes sense, following characters who are difficult to sympathize with (both of them often getting into pointless bickering with each other and those around them), with gameplay that proceeds at a snail's pace and whose biggest moments could have easily been predicted hours earlier.

I see a lot of people who seem inclined to support this game because of all the hate it got from transphobes. Despite the stupid reasons they may have for disliking the game, I advise against hailing this as some sort of milestone in story telling and representation. The game uses it's LGBT-positive elements as bait to get positive coverage and reviews, only to cast them aside in the first 2 hours all so Dontnod could tell a story that's mediocre even by gaming standards.

I got this game for free and I still feel ripped off. Do yourself a favor and don't bother.
 

Sciembe
207 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.0 hrs on record
Posted: 9 January, 2022
The plot is fairly good, nothing groundbreaking but easy enough to get invested in. We guessed a fair chunk of it hours before the characters caught up with us, though, so it could have been more complex. It also would have been more engaging if the game had made either of the twins likeable. They came across as dull, and their 'power' is more interesting in theory than in practice.

The puzzles in the game also were a nice idea but tedious as heck in practice, and felt very separate from the rest of the game. For the last few we ended up just googling the answers because it was so dull flicking through a storybook trying to find details like "did the goblins scratch the moose's back?". There were several puzzles (like the computer password) which we could solve without having to find the 'proper' clue for it, but we still had to find clues and items in the 'correct' order to unlock the next bit of dialogue/cutscene. The characters seem to be pretty slow in general compared to the player, not putting two-and-two together puzzlewise or plotwise.

The game has nice visuals, but I feel that they sacrificed pace and content for it. There are far too many moments where the characters stop and have a long, fairly uninteresting conversation in front of some picturesque view. Very obvious that the devs were more interested in going "ooh look how pretty our game is" rather than focusing on engagement.

If you're considering playing this game please know that there is very little replay value, so you'll almost definitely just be doing the one playthrough which is about 12 hours. I'd recommend waiting for a sale, I would have kicked off if I'd paid full price for this.
 

Laura
153 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
I was so hyped for a new story game where choices matter and change everything but i dont feel like this is the case here. Exploring the places you go is near useless, there is (as far as I explored) nothing that you can find that changes the story in any way so you follow the main storyline, might as well make one big cutscene of the game then where you pick answers.
Overall the characters are not that relatable because the story only focusses on what happened with their mother, why the kids can hear themself talking in their heads? god knows...

I'd recommend this game if you have spare time and literally nothing to do.

(ps. only played this game 2.4 hours then watched the playtrough on youtube cs i got bored walking around the storyline)
 

Kiwi
0
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 27 October, 2021
Mixed feelings on this one, which is why I just went with not recommended.
Full disclosure: I got this game in June when it was free for the month.
The game is *fine*, but nothing great or very memorable.
Tyler isn't very likable, and is almost always a grouch to everyone (including his sister). I can understand why he feels that way, but also, he's an adult and needs to stop being an emo baby to everyone.
Even with only 3 chapters, I felt like the story dragged on, and at the same time, didn't move at all. The story is about the twins selling the house they grew up in after 10 years of being apart, as well as finding out the events leading up to their mother's death. And thats it. There is barely anything more than that. So be prepared for lots of drama between the siblings about themselves, their mother, and the town they're in.
The graphics/scenery in this game are VERY nice though. Lots of nice scenic shots if you like taking screenshots of games you're playing. There were a LOT of nice artwork or models of figurines you run into in game that are just part of the environment and don't serve a purpose (you can't even "Look" at them). Major props to all the animators that made those, I always took my time exploring and looking through each place to look at all those details before doing what I was supposed to do.
 

Nekotora
1,064 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
6.3 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
Product received for free

This review will have minimal spoilers, which will not spoil the story outright, but may touch on a couple story bits and sequences. These spoilers are not marked.


The Story
(Disclaimer: I got the max bond + don’t believe the original memory ending (which is the “best” ending); I did not encounter or watch the other endings.)
The writing is very akin to the Life is Strange series, with that classic “American young adults transparently being written by 40-year old French dudes” aspect in the dialogue (“get all Smeagol” being a notable highlight), but it has one major distinguishing factor versus Dontnod’s other works: it’s extremely slow-paced, with a lot of unnecessary padding to boot -- for example, there is a thirty-minute section wherein you do housekeeping. There are a lot of gratuitous twists, with both chapter 1 and 2 throwing anemic screwballs towards the end of each of them in order to keep the drama going in spite of not much of anything really happening.
Since we’re discussing gratuitous things, the superpower that the game revolves around, specifically the memories and Alyson and Tyler’s telepathic link, are both insubstantial and not really explored in any way. The memories are just that -- remembering things that happened (including having Alyson and Tyler’s memories not sync up), which I’m sure both you and I have; the only thing the characters have over us is that they can render it in 3D. Their memories don’t even sync up and have significant differences, which makes this fantastical power seem very mundane. The story could have removed these magical powers entirely, and it would have largely been the same, a sharp (and ultimately negative) contrast to the rest of Dontnod’s games.
The story itself meanders and doesn’t do all that much until the tail end of each chapter. Much of what happens is supposed to be character-bonding moments, which ultimately comes across as filler (see below on the characters).
As a consequence, the game feels directionless until it manages to stumble into its climax. The climax itself is merely competent, and doesn’t feel like a grand finale or anything particularly special.


On The Stuff With Tyler
I’m not going to talk too much about this, because frankly I lack the credentials to discuss it in a thorough manner.
The transgender aspect of Tyler was handled quite well, and as someone who is not transgender I would consider it an interesting insight.
Despite this, it doesn’t redeem this game for me, and it doesn’t justify trudging through the lackluster story to experience these story bits.


The Characters
The characters are fairly weak altogether. Tyler acts like a jerk at multiple points, but outside of him the characters don’t really feel like they have any sort of defining characteristics that would cause them to have staying power within my memory. They aren't especially one-note (or really that grating), but they aren't interesting, either.
This is compounded with the fact that the voice acting is very mediocre in this game, with the majority of the cast coming across as apathetic in their performances; only Alyson managed to come across as solid. Tyler is especially notable in terms of weak voice acting, as even when he’s trying to sound impassioned, he doesn’t really have a lot of emotion in him.


Technical Aspects
I didn’t encounter many bugs, especially major ones such as softlocks or crazy animation glitches. I think I encountered one animation bug where a character was randomly static during their idle animation, and I only got a couple audio glitches towards the end of the game where a few lines of dialogue randomly freaked out.
In terms of graphics, this is probably the best-looking Dontnod game. That isn’t saying much (especially when you compare it to Life Is Strange and Before The Storm, which are getting much-needed visual remasters), but it’s reasonably pretty, and the rural environment lets them make nice landscapes to serve as backdrops (though the game had a couple too many "look how pretty our game is" shots for my tastes, but that's just a nitpick).
Speaking of art, the art with the Book of Goblins is very nice, with a great balance of refinement and style. It makes me wish that the whole game was expressed through that fairy tale storybook style instead of the decent at best 3D replica of the real world. A game that was built around that vibe would certainly have been much more interesting, and would have been a fun break from the typical Life is Strange formula. Alas, it was not to be.


The Actual Mechanics
As is to be expected from a game that is as story-focused as this one, the gameplay isn't intensive or even much of a priority, and for the most part it's walking around to get to the next story bit (which, for the record, was anticipated and is completely fine by me). The puzzles aren’t too rough; I only brute-forced the ones where I had to consult the Book of Goblins to solve (specifically the door puzzle in chapter 1 and the loft puzzle in chapter 3) out of lack of patience rather than getting stuck on them.
There were three minigames, and only the second one where you try to calm Alyson down during a panic attack is the only one that came across as obtuse and clunky. If you’ve ever played a video game before, you shouldn’t have any trouble with them. They’re alright change-ups, but not really common enough to be anything more than short breaks.


TL;DR and Conclusion: If you like the Life Is Strange games, you will probably like this one. If you don’t like those games, you will probably not like this one. If you’re one of those people that play these games for the “so bad it’s good” factor, the extremely slow pace outweighs what slight amusement can be eked out from it.


Final rating: 3/10


"...Ain't nothin' but a heartache" - The Backstreet Boys
 

Hadradavus
246 products in account
3
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 30 October, 2022
I give «TELL ME WHY» a shot and this video game is not for me.

If you enjoy it ... I'm happy for you. ;-)
 

saladCsar
198 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 13 January, 2023
Product received for free

Meh. The start's too boring for me to even want to continue. It may get better further into the story but for me... no.
 

chloefoster02
38 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 June, 2022
Tyler has the personality of ketchup water. It's an ok game if it's free or deeply discounted. Visuals are pretty, but the characters are meh, flat and boring.
 

ProfGnome
0
13 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 9 February
Not on par with the quality of Life Is Strange in terms of story, for a game that's supposed to be sensitive/inclusive, it sure manages to ride on cliches/stereotypes almost as much as a game made by/for conservatives
 

Tatann
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2022
Tried playing it, didn't expect much but holy crap the main characters are unlikable af. You get tons of expositions spewing out of these 2 within the first hour when it should be warming the player to these characters first since you know, it's a story-driven game, if I don't care about these characters then I'm not gonna care about what's going on around them.
 

MadNax
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 February, 2023
Product received for free

Not even close to Life is Strange from the same developer. Usually these story games hook you fast but i played more than two hours and I was pretty bored. Someone might like it and it does represent Trans community but as a story its pretty boring(at least to me).
 

NickiPicki
0
22 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
15.6 hrs on record
Posted: 18 January, 2021
So disappointing comparing to the Life is Strange games. Decisions aren't as impactful and the whole game feels so slow and dull. I forced myself to finish it hoping at some point things would get better but no.
As much as I loved previous Dontnod games, I really feel like I've lost money and time on this one. I just hope the next game will be better than this.
 

SmokerSky
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.2 hrs on record
Posted: 16 December, 2020
53%
 

Acclimate
702 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
45.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2024
Tell me why I downloaded this
 

Crayon Muncher
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2023
its just so boring, its like a movie with no actual gameplay. you kinda just sit watching bad cutscenes for 30 seconds of bad puzzles
 

smartn't
88 products in account
4
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
From the studio that delivered Life is Strange, this is another story-focused adventure game, but without the time rewind super power.

However, the story is very lacking.
It's boring as heck, the main protagonist being an azzhole doesn't help liking the game or getting interested in what happens.
Even the trans identity theme is heavy handed, when you can find other games (sometimes even free) that are much more subtle in their approach.

It never fails to hint at protecting the environment, but also doesn't bother about having a smoke or writing on trees (and they're so proud of that one that it's a mandatory Steam achievement!). How inconsistent in their messages can they be...

The first chapter is free, so you can forge your own opinion, but I don't recommended wasting your time, unless you're into wanting to punch the main protagonist whenever they open their mouth.
 

cabfe
2,048 products in account
3
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
7.3 hrs on record
Posted: 24 September, 2020
There's always something admirable when a game tries to push the boundaries of representation. I am not trans, so if you are looking for something with that kind of representation I suggest you read into what others thought of the game. But despite a compelling enough mystery, the majority of the game really isn't that interesting to play through. The memory mechanics are underutilized, and so many of the game's levels require you to simply look around in a space until the game decides you've explored enough. There are some quiet moments here that really do help develop the characters, but they're not enough. The dramatic reveals and moments feel forced and uninspired at times, leading to cartoonish moments where characters forget clues they were given moments before. If you're looking for a good small town mystery with supernatural elements, you might be better off going back to Life is Strange.
 

BigBadBarbarossa
0
20 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.1 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March, 2021
Feel free to follow my review page! and my twitch https://www.twitch.tv/nightserg

The gist of it:
Tell Me Why is a narrative-focused game, with not much going for it even in the plot department, an average mystery that will slowly unveil itself without any dangerous outcomes.

👍 The good parts:
+The twins and most of the cast do a fine job at carrying the plot.
+Locations are small but quite detailed and nice to look at.

👎The bad parts:
-The shtick of the game or the mystery fails to shock or even surprise you.
-Little to no gameplay with just a very few amount of puzzles.

Story
It's hard to talk about this particular game without spoiling some things but I'll obviously keep them minor as much as possible. The game starts with one of the twins admitting to killing their mother and then it fast forwards a lot of years in the future when they're more mature.

Yes before you ask, this game has a huge focus half the game on the issues of transitioning from female to male for one of the twins, Tyler, and how he is perceived by the others, and how troubling was his fast as a kid especially for his mother. The other twin Alyson has her own issues, dealing with the past and as you progress through the game, more is revealed as to what happened that led to the death of their mother.

Initially, the game will give you an impression that more is going on but unfortunately that's not going to be the case, at least not what you'd expect from a DONTNOD game. The plot is very safe and very much average without any real stakes in the choices you make and without any tragic or dramatic outcomes.

Honestly, when you finish it, it comes down to just being a story about some twins that simply just forgot what happened in the past and that's it. Even their power which allows them to talk to each other through their thoughts as well as relive some of their memories feels very gimmicky.

Story rating: 6.5/10

Gameplay
There's not much to talk about the gameplay as there's not much to do in the game besides clicking on some objects and a few puzzles which revolve around you reading and figuring out what to press.

Gameplay in this particular genre needs a drastic change, something to push it forward, else most people just won't bother, especially when the plot itself isn't that great. The first Life is Strange at least had an interesting time mechanic which really felt like a part of the story like it had an impact but Tell Me Why's power mechanic is just there to push the story forward, to make sense of it without any real dangers to it.

You have moments in the story where you can pick between two memories and have to decide which one you feel is the right one but ultimately neither is wrong which makes the choices pointless.

Gameplay rating: 5.5/10

Audio
A story-focused game needs to have good or above voice acting and suffice to say Tell Me Why does a decent job at it. Some characters sound weird and out of place but most of them especially Alyson do a wonderful job at creating emotion. Tyler is mostly passive and rarely has any good moments but his sister goes through some really tough emotional stuff and pulls her heart out which is something I have to give props to.

The music is very scarce, only a few songs here and there but they're ok and as for the sound effects and everything else related, nothing really out of the ordinary.

Audio rating: 7.5/10

Graphics, performance and tech analysis
The graphics and art style are well crafted and while the locations you visit are very small with no depth to the level design whatsoever they do look quite detailed and fit quite well with the plot. It was pleasing, relaxing, to explore some of the locations especially their cabin, which had this warmth to it.

As for performance, I had absolutely no issues running the game, and I encountered no bugs whatsoever.

Graphics, performance and tech analysis score: 8/10

Conclusion
Look, Tell Me Why is not really a bad game but it just does not have a good enough plot to make it worth recommending, and with little to no gameplay to compensate why would you consider it? If it's very cheap, go ahead and buy it if you're bored but if you have a huge backlog of games, just focus on them instead, it's a dead year after all :)

Final score: 6.8/10
 

Nightserg
649 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
No. The additional animation to the movement is weird and the style of communication and a dialog itself is boring.
 

Rebellion (Ltes)
0
12 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 30 June, 2021
Story is severely lacking, predictable, and preachy.
 

Alfred Kodani
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2024
Product received for free

the writing was really cringe bro...
 

tado
0
31 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2024
No wonder it was given away for free
 

Inferno
0
13 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.1 hrs on record
Posted: 9 January, 2021
Tell me why is a third person game where you take on the role of two siblings, Alison and Tyler. They go back to the house they grew up in only to find that their memories were not what they thought.

Pros:
Good animations
Simple controls
Excellent graphics
Voice acting is very good

Cons:
Story is weak
The ending is very predicable
Very Linear
Puzzles are uninteresting
There is an insane amount of reading
Very short game for the price
Choices don't matter that much
Several long pauses in conversations
More like a walking simulator
Liberal overtones

I would have to say that the best thing about this game was the excellent graphics. You can tell that a lot a work went into it. I just wish the developers would have spent more time improving the story instead of the graphics.

I can't go to much into the bad points of this game because it would take too long to read. So I'll give you the top 3 and I'll abbreviate.

First, the story is uninteresting. For a short time, it seemed that there may be some kind of supernatural element that may be at play which really interested me but, ultimately, when you find out what it is, it's very disappointing.

Second, the big reveal was so predicable then when it happened, I simply said, “Called it.”

Third, I've played a lot of games that had way too much reading but this game takes the cake. My lord, it is insane and most of it is filler. Useless information that you don't need or it was rehashing information that you already knew.

Okay, this is more of a pet peeve than a con but the entire game is laced with liberal overtones. Some of the points I agree with, others I don't. Here or there, this crap does not belong in gaming because I felt I was being preached to. I don't want to be preached to, I want a game I enjoy but the developers fell well short of that goal if it ever was a goal.

At the time of this review, Tell me why was selling for $29.99. That's way to much for this game. Even if it were good, it's too much because of the short length of game play.
 

Andi
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2021
I really enjoy games where you can make decisions, which feel like a movie and have mystery and a nice story, but I couldn't force myself to play through this, because it's so boring and the characters are so annoying.
 

Moon
730 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 11 June, 2021
Product received for free

I've never seen a more unsympathetic set of protagonists in my life, they're absolutely insufferable.
 

MCX
882 products in account
0
27 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: 30 August, 2020
voice acting blows the other dontnod games out of the water
the characters are fleshed out and the story is interesting

BUT

i got stuck on my sibling standing in my way while in small rooms and had to reset SEVERAL times - lost my progress
game is buggy, animations take forever to reset after interacting with things, and so many other detail issues that broke my immersion in this story, feels like another month or two of development was all it would take to finish this
 

hcssd
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
Probably the most lackluster choice based game I've ever played coming from titles like Heavy Rain, Life is Strange 1+2, Walking Dead, and Detroit Become Human, etc. The story is bland and boring and you don't even get to make any choices that feel meaningful. Pretty disappointing, but you do have the sick power of remembering things and telepathic communication with your sister. The game looks nice, but that is all it has going for it. Everything else is awful.
 

Sock
0
8 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 October, 2024
Before you point your finger and say "He hates the LGBTQ+ community," let me say that's not why I don't like this game.

One of the reasons is the graphics. The game looks...fine. But there is something about the characters that makes it really hard listen to the dialogue instead of just staring at the face. The lipsync feels off and facial expression just feels empty of emotion. The eyes feel especially off. The characters (specifically Alyson for some reason) are never actually looking at anything. In the scenes where you can move the camera, it's really distracting.

Me second gripe is the story. It isn't the fact that it revolves around a trans guy, it's just not interesting. Admittedly, I've only played the first episode, and some of the second. I will probably finish it, but unlike other episodic games like The Walking Dead, these episodes aren't really interesting and don't push me to keep playing. I also feel like there are a bunch of plot holes that are really distracting (like why did Tyler get convicted if his mother was stabbed in the back, and why doesn't Alyson remember that?). I'm sure some of these get answered later in the story, but the way it's presented makes me confused about the plot instead of excited to find out the answer.

My third gripe is the gameplay. I'm a massive Telltale fan, and this game is very similar in that regard. It's just that there's a few gameplay design choices that feel useless and make the game more tedious. The first one I want to bring up is holding LT (I play on controller) to answer a question. Why is this a thing? I actually want someone to explain why this is a thing. Why is there an extra step when answering dialogue? This serves no purpose and honestly hurt my playthrough. The second is The Book of Goblins. Story-wise, this is actually a cool addition. Gameplay-wise, it makes the experience feel much more like a chore. Throughout the game, I feel forced to study the vague lines of a book to progress. In the first episode you get a choice to either do the puzzle or skip it, but hurt your relationship with Alyson. The developers should not have introduced that at all, since it introduces the idea that puzzles are optional and aren't necessary to progress. If the player learns that and keeps on hurting their relationships, it eventually hurts the story.

And that is why I don't like this game. Me and many others got it free in June, because the developer's history with games like Life Is Strange. That's right. I got this game because of the developers, not the game itself.

All in all, this game had potential. I can see another game like this, that could almost go against Life Is Strange. But when you make a game, you have to make it interesting, and keep it interesting. I'm not saying this happened, but it's becoming too common in the entertainment industry: the developers need to stop focusing on the fact that it's a game with a transgender protagonist, but rather on making a good game with a good story.

Here's the kicker that the gaming community really can't take: if you like this game, I respect that. Yeah that's right. I'm not gonna judge you or laugh at you for playing this game. It was YOUR CHOICE to play this. Not mine, or anyone else's. NOT ME, OR ANYBODY ELSE HAVE THE RIGHT TO TELL YOU HOW TO SPEND YOUR MONEY. If you like this game and disagree with me criticism, THATS OKAY.

Ok, that's about it.
 

Mr. Miscellaneous
134 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
16.7 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
Product received for free

Tell Me Why

A broken game.

Purchased Cost: Free

I currently considered 'Tell Me Why' to be broken with a game ending bug that has been reported by numerous players for the last several months.

I've been playing video games since the ZX Spectrum and I can count on one hand game ending bugs I've experienced. Unfortunately 'Tell Me Why' is one of these games.

In Chapter 3 (Scene: Paternity Test) it is impossible to continue the story as the game gets stuck in a loop. Sitting down to eat Cobbler whilst waiting for Dee to finish her report in the police station doesn't trigger the next scene and it's impossible to continue from here.


Tell Me Why 
A Screenshot of Tell Me Why
By: harv


This issue still remains unresolved. I've previously purchased 'Remember Me', 'Vampyr', 'Life is Strange' and 'Before the Storm' from DontNod but will no longer support them until this is resolved and have now removed 'Life is Strange 2' from my wishlist.

My current advice is to ignore this game and developer for future releases. I will of course amend this review if they fix the issue.
 

harv
1
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
More than playing, I felt like I was watching the pilot episode of a TV series, with the hassle of having to make the characters move every now and then.
In terms of graphics, the backgrounds seemed a bit "postcard-like" to me.
 

[B.n.B] AlcyToronto
61 products in account
2
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
I fell asleep, twice.
Don't get me wrong, I'm a staunch defender of narrative-driven, choice-based gameplay relying on plot/character.

Sadly, this game wins no accords in any of those elements:
The low-stakes story barely keeps us hooked (Disclaimer: I have no problem with the LGBT elements, but a story needs to be good, just coz you throw in LGBT elements doesn't make it an instant masterpiece)
Characters are one dimensional for the most part, there is no real choice whatsoever nor any *meaningful* physical interaction with the world around you and by god, where is the gameplay? The items that you can interact with (self-confessed item hoarder here) are not interesting, none of them drive any minor/side plot and was an utter waste of time to click on any every single item. There are barely any easter eggs spread out and the puzzles seemed forced and honestly groan inducing. The supernatural element seems more like a mcguffin or a deus ex machina rather than an interesting ability.

If you want to see this EXACT sort of gameplay done well: please do play Life is Strange, that game is a masterpiece and this game cannot even hold a candle to it!

Lone pro:
The world is beautiful to admire, kudos to the graphics team, I s'pose.

Verdict: Skip, and replay LiS for the nth time. #TeamChloe
 

PratLegacy
83 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2021
Product received for free

I can't recommend the game. The story was shaping up to be good, but the ending was extremely underwhelming and dissatisfying. I really thought it would be supernatural, but it turns out, the main characters were just "confused" about what they saw and heard the entire time. A huge flop...
 

Lylex
0
15 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2024
Twitter: The Video Game
 

Sol3K
787 products in account
2
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 9 July, 2021
Very boring slow paced game. Story as far as i made it seems very dull and predictable.It feels more like a chore than a fun game to be honest.
 

Charles|<Vojakiller>
144 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
unplayable due to bugs. I can't finish the game even after deleting it and reinstalling it. really annoying
 

RisingPhönix
0
17 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
28.0 hrs on record
Posted: 17 December, 2020
I'd been thinking a lot whether to recommend this game or not, and to my great surprise, I chose not to.
Of course, not all elements of the game were disappointing. The game is really good starting point for DONTNOD to create another exciting franchise. The pretty good graphics depicting the picturesque Alaskan small town environment and nature were really charming, and this made the exploration of areas a pleasant experience. I also loved the design of the interiors. On the flip side, the playable character movement animation seems unnatural and excessively shaky. Sometimes, there is even a wind effect applied to clothing when a protagonist is inside a building with doors and windows closed. A few graphical glitches may also be encountered.

The sound and the music are pretty decent too. Nothing to complain about, but the soundtrack wasn’t memorable enough to stick with me after finishing the story, unlike the pieces in the previous games, even the one single song from the Awesome Adventures of Captain spirit stayed with me for a while.

The idea behind the game is exciting and definitely worth expanding. I liked the memory hunting mechanics, almost straight from Remember Me. Too bad that the memories . I also appreciate the effort the authors put into the Book of Goblins, especially the artwork.
The story has a lot of potential. I loved the shocking plot twists at the closing parts of the chapters. I liked the main protagonists - the Ronan siblings, and the introduction of the transgender character didn’t feel forced. The character seemed so natural and relatable as they would as a real person. It surprised me that the story involved  characteristic of the LiS series, but this time the  affected only the two main protagonists and not the entire environment around them. It is also an interesting revelation that the two characters remember the past so differently. Their personalities also differ much enough to make their interactions fascinating.

Despite the fact that this game isn’t a Life is Strange franchise entry, it pretty much feels like it. And here's why:
• It has an episodic structure and features the choice and consequence mechanics.
• It introduces two closely related main protagonists who know each other really well working together on a mutual problem. A nice diversification from the LiS franchise is the fact that throughout the game, you have the chance to play as both of them, not only one for the entire game.
• the action of the game takes place in a small remote town in contemporary USA, which happens to be their hometown and they come back to reunite after several years being apart, although the purpose of this reunion is different.
• There is  in Tell Me Why.  What makes this  different than the ones that LiS protagonists have, is the fact that it is shared by both the twins and it cannot affect anyone else.
• Its narrative focuses on the past and involves flashbacks from the past. The two main characters carry out an investigation to reveal a mystery from the past, just like in LiS1. The characters may also resort to crime to obtain necessary items or information, and the interviews and interrogations are based on previously gathered intel, and their results vary on the basis of previous choices.
• It features LGBT characters.
• The siblings’ mother .
• It has the same unique art style characteristic of the LiS series.
• The story is told like a fable from the Book of Goblins, just like the story of the Wolf Brothers in LiS2.
• Just like in the LiS series, we’ve got a set of collectible objects of sentimental value.

So, what is wrong with the game? The first noticeable flaw is the pacing. Too slow at one time and too fast at another. We don’t have the option to choose the speed of movement - the characters walk or run at times specified by the game. Sometimes it is annoying that we move so slowly, and sometimes we move too quickly to spot interesting details.

Yet, what is the most heart breaking for me is the poor character introduction and relation. There are just a few secondary characters in the game, and even fewer have significance to the story. Their backstories aren’t fully explained, and the relations and generally shallow. I started to have such issue on my first playthrough of LiS2, but in that game, we were constantly on the move, running from a threat, and here we are in one location - a childhood town, full of memories, and people we know really well, well we are supposed to know them really well, but the developers don’t really allow us to.

This could be solved by introducing flashbacks from closer and further past, depicting significant moments in the twins' relation with every each of the characters. Sometimes we are forced to make choices that severely impact the relations between us and other characters before we even know who they are, for example when  That's simply absurd.

Furthermore, the  seems really forced and out of place. Engaging in such a relation under the circumstances depicted in the game just didn’t feel natural, and, of course I chose not to, but there really should not be such option in the first place.

Last but not least, the characters fail to convey emotions and behaviours typical of human beings under certain, especially stressful circumstances. The moment that it most obvious occurred when  That is just one instance of this issue that I happen to remember best, but there are at least a few more.

To sum up, the game seems to be a failed LiS game, that for business needs was rebranded, not to ruined the great esteem and reputation of the franchise and sold as a different game because it was in the middle of development and yet unfinished when the publisher decided that it was the time of release. This would also explain the relatively low price on the day of the premiere, which is justifiable, given the quality of the game.
The game isn't terrible, it is quite decent, but it is a DONTNOD game and you don’t expect anything but the best and most unique story, complex characters, great music and original art style, which is really disappointing about Tell Me Why.
 

LukenGelis
86 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 September, 2020
Product received for free

The issue of identity is handled with more respect than the hamfisted two-dimensional tokenized way it usually is and there is not nearly as much "cringe" as there was in Life Is Strange. The remote Alaskan setting is compelling.

Unfortunately, the game is way too long, even though it's much shorter (for the same price) as Life Is Strange and Life Is Strange 2 (15hrs versus 8+hrs). The padding should have been removed. (for instance, you spend 10+ minutes choosing what items to pack or not, but it isn't relevant to anything and has no consequence, the animations seem needlessly slow, the conversations drag on in a way that doesn't progress the story at all). This entire game should have only been a single four hour episode -- and even then it might have been lacking, simply because of the story and it's resolution.

It's also frustrating that the "children's stories" which play an absolutely integral part to the game are not narrated. There are twenty of them and you just have to read them silently on the screen, like some Mass Effect codex. If these had been narrated by the siblings, it would have been so terrific!

I liked the world this game took place in and a lot of the characters -- even though we only get to meet a few of them, but I found myself having the same reaction my audience did at the end of each chapter (and the game), which was "wait, is that it?!"
 

murderbits
7,532 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2021
This game had a good story and message, and I think a lot of people could learn from some of the themes and subject matter they covered. However, I can not say that I enjoyed playing this game through. It didn't seem like any choices I made in the game made a difference. I have to say a lot of the dialogue seemed unnecessary and was extremely boring. There were a lot of conversations that involved characters one on one. But I think something went wrong with the facial animations, and they would maintain a weird amount of eye contact that took away from the scenes.

Sadly, the puzzles at the end using the Book of Goblins was the most fun I had throughout the whole game. I would not recommend.
 

alicia
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2021
The game is great. I played the first 2 chapters from xbox game pass and wanted to finish it on Steam since it's free.

While I was trying to transfer the save from Microsoft to Steam, it seems it's an impossible task.
Not only that, but I actually discovered that the game doesn't make a save file at all, so when I quit the game the progress simply disappears.

I tried a lot of solutions, even uninstalling the game and deleting every folder related.. doesn't work, save file doesn't exist, and progess gets lost everytime I quit the game.

So yeah, I can't even play the game from the beginning if I wanted to. Hopefully we'll get a fix for this.
 

Robi
229 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 13 April, 2021
I've played many story driven games like Heavy Rain, Life is Strange, Walking Dead, Last of Us, Detroit: Become Human etc. but nothing was as boring and flat out annoying as this game.

- the dialoges felt forced and kinda awkward

- the main character Tyler is pretty unlikeable imo

- the whole transgender thing feels also forced. Like I don't mind the whole topic, but don't remind me every 40 seconds about it.

- the "plot twist's" are partially predictable... there wasn't a single minute (unlike in other games) where I was shocked or surprised. It was more like "okay... cool".

- I still don't know why "the bond" really exists? But it seems its absolutely normal...

- it felt like choices doesn't have much impact. There wasn't a single choice where I had to face a difficult decision

+ I guess the soundtrack was pretty cool?


I think there are way better story driven games out there, which are far more fun to play ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
 

FetzL
223 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2020
I love Life is Strange series which is why I decided to try this game. I had high hopes for this game as well. I liked the LGBTQ+ feature in this game but I don't think this game was for me. This game had a really slow pace to it I found this game a bit boring than the others it didn't give off a magic feel to the like the other games had shown. There weren't any hard choices or anything that you would feel like you would regret no big plot twists that can affect the outcome of the story. This game had just felt like an afterthought it didn't feel like I was in the moment when the siblings can talk back and forth to each other through their minds. I just kind of felt it was a bit boring and just basic like it wasn't anything creative this game didn't give off a Life is Strange game and I found the characters to be a bit dull personally. I was waiting for something huge to happen in Tell Me Why but I didn't get any of that when I had played this game, yes I will admit it is a bit early for me to write this review such as I have been playing this game for an hour. So I could be a bit wrong with some of the things this is how I feel so far throughout the game. I am unsure if I want to continue this game I had high hopes but just thinking about this game frustrates me I'm sure this game is good and I have heard it has a slow start but really like I stated before I have no clue if I want to continue. I wanted to like this game but the characters were just really boring to me and the story. The plot itself is boring I honestly feel bad for even leaving this review for somebody who has played for an hour. This game just really makes me angry the slow pace made me very annoyed. I seriously tried to make myself enjoy this game thinking it would get better but I seriously doubt it will from what I am reading you don't have a lot of time to explore the game just rushes you. In conclusion, I don't recommend this game to anyone overall the game is not that challenging.
 

Rigatoni ✯
28 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 27 August, 2023
Product received for free

I want to love this game because of the subject matter and great character voice acting, setting and fantastic art in both characters and locales. Even for free, this just feels like a slog through its incredibly slow first act and bland writing style that lent itself better to Life Is Strange instead of whatever this was. It just takes a lot of plot liberties as well that character just go along with assuming with no real reaction as to why things are the way that they are.
 

FidelCashflo
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 17 March, 2021
I wish there was an x20 speed mode, because thats how much faster my brain is working. BOOORING.
 

chilic
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Couldn't even get past the first 30 minutes.
I liked LIS1 & 2, but this is SO BORING
 

Iron Horse
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 January
The game has beautiful visuals, nice music and just brilliant setting. But unfortunately, I just couldn't get into the story or relate with the emotions of the main characters.

After playing Life is Strange I had much higher expectations and this wasn't it. The initial part was still ok but it felt like a drag towards the end and I just wanted it to end. Overall, this game isn't for me but perhaps others that can relate to how the MCs process emotions will enjoy it.
 

bartendercrouch
126 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 3 October, 2020
Honestly, I love this game. The first two chapters, specifically.

Unfortunately, I've seem to run into a bug in Chapter 3 where I am unable to progress the scene once Allison takes the peach cobbler in the break room, sits down in front of Greggs, and then... nothing.

The story up until then was beautiful, though.

Update: It's been almost three months since this review and the cobbler bug is still there. I don't know if DONTNOD is even trying to fix it anymore.

Update Two: Decided to reinstall the game to see if I could finally finish it, but nope, the cobbler bug is still there for me and the developer hasn't replied to bugs/complaints in two months.
 

harasnicole
125 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 31 July, 2022
Product received for free

I really want to enjoy the game but it just doesn't hold up. The game isn't the worst but it's hard to get into it.
The character's eyes and faces look like something out of the polar express movie, it's very distracting and a big reason I can't get into the stories. + there aren't any strong emotional facial expressions, their faces never fit the emotions they want to show.
The mouth movement is also one of the most awful things in the game, with bad animation in all parts of the face.
I'm hoping to finish it tho and hopefully change my mind
 

Sbeve
573 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2021
Product received for free

Holy damn. I got this game for free back when they were just giving this game away, and finally getting around to play it, I see why they literally had to give it away. Hell, they also for some reason make almost EVERY achievement worth 50 gamerscore (there are two 100's and two 25's), so it's very clear they were desperate for people to play this game.

This game, just like every other one of Dontnod's choice games (aside from the first Life is Strange game), is just awful. The story sucks, the characters are uninteresting, one dimensional, and just plain cringey with their dialogue (which is basically just because Dontnod is awful with dialogue), and the game is AWFUL to play. I was literally able to sit back like I was watching a movie for very long stretches at a time without playing the game. And then when I actually WAS playing the game, IT'S SO DAMN SLOW.

Seriously, this game is WAY too slow (and I noticed others felt the same way). Even without hating the story, you would still hate having to ever replay any section of the game (it's bad enough the first time through). And yet, despite how unbearably slow it is, they for some reason thought it necessary to give you a WALK BUTTON that you will NEVER use. WHY NOT GIVE A RUN BUTTON TO MAKE IT SLIGHTLY MORE BEARABLE?!

Honestly, the only time in this ENTIRE game I got even a slight bit of enjoyment was in Chapter 3 where for a long stretch, Alyson's phone was glitched through her wrist and wouldn't go away. It was hilarious seeing this glitch during scenes. You know it's pathetic when the only enjoyable part of an entire game is just one random glitch.
 

Vytlo
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.1 hrs on record
Posted: 26 December, 2020
Underwhelming, but I came in with high expectations after having enjoyed Life is Strange. I won't really compare the two, as someone else did that, but I'll just say that this one doesn't hold a candle to LiS.

The good:
I liked the trans inclusion parts. It wasn't just shoved in for feel good sjw points, but there was a vital plot point for it. Story-wise it was refreshing to see something like this. I loved some of the artwork. The voice acting was good. The location was interesting. There was a lot of hard work that went into worldbuilding the town, and I really appreciated diving into it all. For example, there's a small police case sideplot that gets revolved along with the main story, and it was kinda neat to get closure on it even if it had no real impact on anything.

The bad.
Story was predictable as all hell. I had the gist of what happened by the end of the first chapter, and the rest of it was just filling in the mystery gaps. By the time the characters found out about some big reveal, it just felt like they were way behind the curve. The stakes weren't high here, either. Tension was low. Emotional impact was low to moderate. There was a TON of unnecessary bits of story that just served to waste time. Like the romance bits. I shipped them, of course, but man what a waste of time. Mentioning a waste of time, there were several other 'twists' in the story that had little impact on the rest of the story. These bits really surprised me and made some sense on the backstory, but ultimately it changed nothing.

Most of the problems in the story stemmed from how childish the two main characters were behaving. It was almost a coming of age type story as the player needs to force them to act like a patient, empathetic, reasonable adult in order to get the better scenes, and to be honest, these choices are almost obvious.

Honestly, if I were a thirteen year old having not played LiS, I would've been impressed with this game. I probably wouldn't have seen the "twists" coming a mile away, I might've identified with the two "young adults" much better, but I didn't.

Don't get me wrong. It isn't a bad game. It's a watered-down Life is Strange, but much less interesting and way less exciting.

 

FoxCassia
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Sigh... the more DONTNOD games I play the more I realise that "Life is Strange" was a complete fluke. Full disclaimer I have only played the first chapter as it was free, and from what I can tell this game tries to go for the LGBTQ angle but fails to explore it in any realistic way.
If I have to give a few pointers I would ditch the supernatural ESP stuff for this game. The supernatural feature worked in "Life is Strange" because Max was a quiet timid girl and it was interesting to see what happens when you give someone like that time travel powers. Here in this game however it just feels random and doesn't add anything to the story.
I also would have preferred it if Tyler didn't connect with Alyson after being separated for 10 years, maybe have him be completely different to what Alyson remembered and reconnect over time after overcoming huddles like you would see in a drama.
With regards to the LGBTQ theme, you want to illustrate both of sides of the extremities i.e. show the bigots as well as the the overly sensitive types (fyi both have negative impacts on people dealing with gender issues). Maybe highlight how differently people in their town treats Tyler after his switch, or even better show us why lead to Tyler deciding to identify as a man (which would of course require some research and better writers).

Overall this left a disappointing first impression, and at this point I'm turned off by DONTNOD games which is such a sad thing to admit after the masterpiece that was "Life is Strange"
 

CheekyPanda
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.6 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2021
There is a decision in the act of remembering. You decide how to tell the story of your past. That's a neat idea.

Besides that, I played the whole game for free, which was the right price.
It's not bad, it's not just for me. Theses kids have a lot of emotions, it's exhausting.

The game forces you to read that Book of Goblins to solve 'puzzles' ("Here is a story about a fish, a bear, and a mouse, so I better press on the fish, the bear and the mouse"-sort of puzzles) -- it's boring. Did they pay an illustrator a lot of money to make the book? Game, why do you keep forcing me to read that thing?
 

zack314
435 products in account
1
17 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
14.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 December, 2024
Beautiful scenery but you spend most of the time inside opening drawers searching for nonsense. The puzzles are dumb too. The only good thing is the graphics look really nice and there is a tiny bit of interesting plot twist at the end.
 

justpeachie47
214 products in account
0
15 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
18.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 August, 2021
"Tell Me Why" this game is so booooooooaring!!!!!!!!!!!!
 

Commander Shepard
1,599 products in account
6
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 July, 2022
Product received for free

If you like to watch paint dry, this game might be for you. It is boring af! As far as I got, it was very easy.
 

Elusive
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 August, 2021
Product received for free

not DONTNOD's best work in my opinion. really appreciate the topic it revolves around, since we rarely see any transsexual representation in videogames!! :) so good job on that one, Tyler didnt feel cliche or annoying at all neither.

well regarding the fact that i got it for free in june, it was a good game. But would i spend 17.- on it? probably not. the characters feel more bland than they did in games such as life is strange, at least to me. i couldnt really connect to any of them and the gameplay felt kinda slower than it should have. :/ as i said, the game isnt bad itself, but it just didnt really emotionally affect me as much, as other DONTNOD titles did.
 

//ryve//
255 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
16.4 hrs on record
Posted: 6 August, 2021
Product received for free

I am unable to unlock the achievement "Moo'd Changer" due to Tyler's VO line ("Alright I guess it is pretty funny") not triggering in-game which directly unlocks the achievement.

I have done the actions needed to trigger the VO line on 3 different PCs in 4 different walkthroughs with multiple gameplay and settings changes such as skipping cinematics, changing resolution and other settings such spoken and written language, doing actions in game in different order, etc.

I have received 0 support or response from the devs despite reporting the issue on Steam forum and creating a new discussion about the issue as well as reporting it on their official Reddit page.
 

MrDEADx
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2021
I felt this game was very slow going ... it's not very engaging with the main characters, they feel boring and stagnant. You guys need to hire better voice actors.
 

Johnny Rem
0
16 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2024
L game L story L no skipping L characters
 

daha_ramzi
107 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 14 March, 2021
This is NOT life is strange 3.

The audio had a weird glitch that would cause an ear popping effect.

The story was uninteresting (I only played an hour and a half into ep.1) but the graphics were tight yo.
 

mugget
0
19 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
i don't like the main character, pretty annoying.
 

uros
38 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2021
++ Graphics
+ Gameplay Intuition (Uniformity & Inovation)
+- Music (Good, badly mixed in some moments)
- Gameplay Playtrough (Lousy, limited)
---- Story (misleading, little care given for most important concepts, emotionally driven, artificially lenghtened)
 

CendaCZ
492 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2022
Tell Me Why is possibly a very good and interesting game. I'll never know because to find out you have to get through the first act. Even if you like LGBTQ positive stories or Life is Strange, that is no guarantee you'll enjoy this game. I adore Life is Strange and would strongly recommend you play that instead. This story might still appeal to you, that's okay, but I struggled to keep my eyes open; boring is the word I warn you with.


 

Cozy Pirate
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March, 2021
tell me why is boring
 

Jubiee
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.6 hrs on record
Posted: 9 September, 2021
The story is so bland and uneventful after the ending of chapter 1 that I found it difficult to finish.
 

EightSixThree
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2021
story has a good message, but overall the gameplay is boring. Biggest problem is the dead eyes of the characters, it feels like mocap without any help, its jarring
 

Mr. McPerson
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 20 March, 2021
Clear went down hill after they finished making life is strange
 

AndyJumpWalker
407 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2022
Product received for free

well the storie is something else. not my type of game
 

Rkreitan
355 products in account
0
17 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Even if you're politically on board with lead characters' values, you'll probably fine the dialogue cringy and naive. Choices were lame and seem to have absolutely no impact on the story. You are either the good guy or the bad guy, and if you are the bad guy your character instantly acts regretful. Pacing is painfully slow, like they expect the audience to be highly emotion and breathless over every scene.
 

Amaya Sarai
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
4.1 hrs on record
Posted: 8 September, 2024
At the time of writing I've just started chapter 2 and I'm interested to see how the story develops but everything is soooo sloooow. Movements and actions, walk speed, so many cut scenes and a lot of dialogue that takes a long time - if there's a way to speed up or skip things I haven't found it. Came into it knowing it was a story-driven game but I was expecting something more along the lines of 'Life is Strange'. I figure the cut scenes are meant to add to the story and emotion but personally they're not landing for me because they drag out and I get bored.
 

Really Bad Egggg
204 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.1 hrs on record
Posted: 23 July, 2022
an otherwise good game for the most part is ruined with bad pacing, too much filler and a lack to emotion of the characters faces, anger is only portrayed well, sadness and anything else seems very dead pan for the most part. If the filler was cut out I think would of recommend this game, liked the main characters and a few side ones, but some of the voice acting was also deadpan. Nice representation in the game, and great approach to all of it, very respectful. I feel like the filler was probably an afterthought due to some microsoft exclusive requirements on playtime
 

onyi
0
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
26.3 hrs on record
Posted: 27 February, 2022
Almost gave it a thumbs up, it's not a bad game, but it's just not a good game.

An easy-going enough game but short, choices don't change the story too much and both endings proved disappointing. A lot more could have been done with this game, their "power" should have been linked with some other supernatural elements, and without it it kinda makes their power pretty lame. Quite a good story (in theory), but not very exciting in the present time and had me bored reading the side stories. The biggest issue with the story is there is no real closure, regardless of which ending you achieve. I guess the developers did this on purpose to be like, sometimes these terrible things happen and we never really get closure, but this is a game that's meant to be story heavy. Sorry but the ending was bull-poop.

This game is all about the beauty in its subtlety and slow approach, and it does that very well. Still worthwhile to play if you pick it up cheap but certainly not as cool as it could have been. Just ONE action scene would have been a great complement. An easy game to play when there's other things going on in the house so you're not fazed when you miss some dialogue but enough to get you to the finish line. Just don't expect to be rewarded when you get there.
 

Polkad0t
0
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 April, 2021
I think this game as a whole was terrible because the story was flat, it started off really interesting, but after the intro, the story started to drag because it was like the beginning was completely forgotten and they just turned it into something boring and uninteresting. The characters weren't that good, they literally had no personality apart from one thing, the animations were really bad especially when it came to the facial expressions which weren't present at all, I often would just listen to the lines instead at look at their faces because it wasn't present, you just saw mouths moving with the actor's voice coming out and that was it. I know some of the actors in the game tried their best to deliver their lines but sometimes it sounded like they were bored or didn't believe what they were saying. The only good think I was say was good about it was that the landscapes in the game were beautiful. Even as someone who loves the life is strange game series, I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone at all.
 

CookiesInWinter
0
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
13.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
I loved so many interactive storys (walking dead, life is strange, wolf amongst us..) but this.. I'm sorry but the story is as boring as watching free TV.

Edit: I purchased the game because a first impression review isn't really fair. After a few hours I can say that the story is getting a little bit more interesting. And the game deserves some credits for the graphics and the soundtrack. So I guess due to the light story it may be perfect for a younger generation to play. Maybe 12-16 years old? I don't know ^^

*** maybe Spoiler ***
Edit 2: Finished the game after 13 hours looking at every stone. What can I say.. the game was still boring in the end. In the last scenes you will definetly notice that it seems like they wanted to finish the game fast. Bye room to the moon? What the heck.. And there wasn't even a big video scene in the end. Felt like something is missing. Still wouldn't recommend the game, sorry.
 

VanessaCruel
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.7 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2021
This is dark comedy about two goblins trying to spread everywhere darkness. They live with their childhood trauma and trying to move forward. Sadly the game gives you most annoying protagonist (or more like antagonist) ever Tyler. This dark entity returns from lost years and tries to show what “cool” of a person he became by not treating other people like human beings, always showing that he is better in everything. Best to worst part is to watch this darkness to let other people get involved in hes biddings and let to see them what he sees and only hes truth is always right. Which is funny to think about it that its not most of the time. Story itself is not very good either. Some of the parts taking to long to unravel.
 

Purpleetea
565 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 August, 2022
Product received for free

This aint it chief. Lightning doesn't strike twice.

I wanted to like this game. Big fan of the original LiS (not so much LiS2 which was also a bit of a flop unfortunately). I'd love for DONTNOD to have their own IP (that Square Enix doesn't own) that's GOOD. Unfortunately Deck Nine has done a better job on LiS: True Colours than both this and LiS2. What happened to your writers DONTNOD? Programming/art is on point as far as I can see.

All the dialogue felt so stilted, the "superpower" just feels awkward - half the "past" scenes don't really add much and the talking to eachother part just seems to interupt normal conversations while everyone just stares at eachother awkwardly. The main characters don't even seem all that surprised to have these abilities. Compare this to LiS which has Chloe hyping the whole thing up (not to mention rewinding time fitting perfectly as a game mechanic). The "hook" really isn't here with viewing the past because its really just not that interesting.

The dialogue choices don't really seem to matter much and sometimes I didn't even want to select one of the two offered choices.

I do love the Alaskan scenery, the graphics are excellent. For some reason they thought making you sit through a 10 minute ferry ride right at the start of the game would be fun for some reason - they're really padding the game time. Not a whole lot of substance to interact with, you're just trapped on the boat. There's a later scene where you're literally picking up items to buy in a grocery store - it seems pointless.

The puzzle in Episode 1 with the story book and the locks on the door was just needlessly frustrating. "Here, have a book with 1000s of words of children's stories, use it to solve this lock!" - honestly less time to brute force it. Very lazy puzzle design - a far cry from most adventure games with regular puzzles throughout.

How every single person in town reacted was almost identical to each other. There's no personality here. The game feels very on rails and there aren't a heap of NPCs to interact with at any one time and even when you do its the one/two liner type interactions. There's no dialogue type puzzles where you "unlock" additional choices with other characters.

The voices used in some of the past interactions seems to switch randomly. I'm assuming they're both roughly 18 in the "present", 8 years old in the "past" but it feels like the voice actor swapped in some of the past scenes. Sometimes its a young girl's voice, other times a young boy's voice. They also drop the line that Tyler only started testosterone 3 years prior to the present. It makes no sense.

The game (and the developers) really want to push an agenda about one of the main characters being trans. Every NPC seems to react to THAT rather than the fact that Tyler KILLED HIS MOTHER which I'm sure everyone in a small town would have known her somewhat well. The game is set in 2015 or so but acts like its set in 2022 (or even later considering how most people react to this "news"). The redneck style guy in the house reminded me of the one dimensional "bigot" type characters in LiS2 - simply there to make a political point rather than tell a story.

Meanwhile Tyler has been able to come and go from his "institution" (juvie?) for the past 3 years and didn't go back home which is seemingly across the lake. For someone that has gone through all this trauma, Tyler reacts surprisingly mildly to absolutely everything and is seemingly well adjusted - this is very congruent to his circumstances. This character isn't fleshed out at all. Not to mention the sister being incredibly bland herself.

Adding LGBT themes is fine, DONTNOD has even done this well in other games. Unfortunately tacking it onto any old story doesn't make that story GOOD.

I'm just glad I didn't pay for this. Did not finish.
 

Nakid_uA.
0
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 April, 2021
The Story Here Is Kind Of Boring. I Got Bored After Over 40 Minutes. This Wastes Your Time. Save Your Money.

2.4/10
 

Bruhmangaming
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2023
boring story & game
 

delaroca
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 27 February, 2022
Fairly disappointing, casual drama story, which feels like a novel that wasn't adapted to game format, but rather remained a novel. It's a 3D point-and-click "adventure" game, although there is not much sense of an adventure, as the story follows people dealing with their traumas and exploring their past. The gameplay consists mostly of searching several recurring locations for interactive objects and annoyingly adjusting the camera to select them, watching people chat about all kinds of unrelated things, waiting for UI animations to let you select a response 6 seconds after a question is asked, and waiting for character animations to complete (their slowness makes RDR2 jealous). While most animations look alright and there is a large variety of full-body movements throughout the scenes, facial animations looked very uncanny to me; maybe because only mouths, eyeballs and eyebrows get to move, and all in just one direction, which, considering the otherwise high-fidelity art style, makes characters look like puppets. This is especially jarring in emotional scenes, which look completely out of place. The primary themes of this game, including traumas, transgender identity, suicide, etc. are merely mentioned, and not explored, leaving the story much without substance. In my view, merely featuring a gay character in a drama story is insufficient to make it the holy book of LGBT communities this game pretends to be. It also pretends to be a choice-heavy game, and while yes, lots of choices matter, most are barely consequential and do not change where the story goes, rather, they usually change the specific words characters will use, or photos that will appear in-game. And it's definitely not a role-playing game, all player choices are completely arbitrary, and you do not know enough background about characters to make a conscious decision about their role in the story. So they usually boil down to "be nice / be a jerk" or "reunite / reject". You get to choose the story you wish to see, but you don't really influence character development. The pacing of the game is really off. It's a relatively chill story, no action, no (actual) mysteries, no motives, just watch along. So it is intentionally very very slow. Yet besides all scenes being fully voiced and animated, every 2 minutes you are hit with ten document you need to read in detail to be able to continue the story. I don't mind reading stuff in games, but the way it interrupts character interactions all the time completely kills the dynamics of each scene. Not to mention the game literally features a child's stories book with around 20 fantasy stories for kids, which the player is supposed to read in entirety to be able to solve in-game puzzles and understand all metaphores. Really feels out of place. Also, with the game being so directly founded in reality, the occasional paranormal / supernatural themes were completely unnecessary; the marketing materials made it seem like it's going to be a major element of the game, while it was not, and the story would have worked just as well without them, making them redundant and unwelcome.
The parts I liked about the game were the highly-detailed art style, gorgeous Alaskan scenery which can be admired in all areas, the absolutely brilliant performance by Alyson's VA, and the pretty good soundtrack.
My playtime is not representative as I took pauses, there is around 6-8h of content.
 

cielak_
463 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.4 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2024
I was lured in to see Alaska's snow capped mountains and rippling waterfalls, bears and whales, arts of Tlingit, Haida, Tsimshian and Eyak artists.

The first 30 minutes was very satisfying.

Especially on the ferry boat, I was able to see cedar trees and shore pines on snow covered mountains, soaking up the serenity of that peaceful lake, and witnessed the humpback whale jumping out of the water.

After arriving the Mary Ann's house, it was a small adventure to figure out how to find way to enter the house, interesting but not difficult.

Yet once inside of the house, the nightmare began.

I have to go through every props, digging out stories behind it, read the whole fairy tale book, and found the diary, transgender child education book, it was sad and depressed. What made it worse is the recap of Tyler's childhood story. It began to grow into a very unpleasant feeling that I was trapped in this story, inside of this house, and unable to go outside to take a breath.

The emotion has made this game so heavy that I got to quit the game to take a break.

When I found out that 95% of game time, you'll be indoors, talking to Alyson - that's my last straw, uninstalled the game.

Maybe it's a good story, for those who want to experience Tyler's life and inner conflicts, but it's not for me.

I was a little disappointed not being able to explore Delos Crossing town, and the designs of local artists were buried under the heavy story-line. The game team could have done a better job.
 

KOI_4878
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.6 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2024
Product received for free

Get all the way to the last conversation where everything is revealed, and it won't progress further.
Devs say it's a priority, but it's been reported for years. It's a decent free game, but I wouldn't pay for it.
 

Freshie
0
8 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2021
Pretty bad game from Dontnod entertainment over all. The story writing and character development are nothing more than human excreta. World building and graphics are pretty good though. Shame that the world doesnt make up for the faeces that the storyline is.


And the next thing I know I am being accused of being transphobic for disliking the protagonist.
 

D[3]Ath CruZ3r
73 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Tell Me Why, is it nothing but a heartache?

Our verdict: Unworthy
Find out why in our full game review[tgexp.com].
 

Not Now Mom, I'm Gaming Podcast
1,588 products in account
0
15 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.4 hrs on record
Posted: 26 December, 2024
Product received for free

Game is way to slow to build the plot. In addition the inability to speed the dialogue is painful when you are a fast reader.
 

citadelcadet
59 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
didn't really like it the story has a lot of plot holes
 

TEAMDEHGHAN
326 products in account
0
13 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
The story is okay, but the gameplay is so boring.
 

Linn
97 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Couldn't even bring myself to finish the free chapter, god that hurt
 

junknugget
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 26 July, 2024
These types of games feel so confident in their ability to tell a compelling story, but honestly I found it super cringey and the game fell super flat. I felt way more involved in so many other games that don't even market themselves as story games. This to me is like a first year English major's fan fic turned into a perfectly average video game. It's not awful, but it's nothing special and there are too many other awesome games to waste time on this.
 

Cneasai
898 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
17.0 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2021
Product received for free

[CONTAINS MINOR SPOILERS for TMW, LiS1, LiS2]

Marginally better story than Life is Strange 2 (disaster), but overall uninteresting and still retains the cringeworthy and interminably long chapter recaps (this time it's goblins instead of wolves). The short, simple recaps from Life is Strange 1 were the best and should never have been changed.

+ Tell Me Why's music is flawless. Dontnod always chooses good soundtracks.

+ Graphically stunning. A huge leap forward from LiS2.

+ Representation of minorities (trans man in this case) is good though I prefer the subtlety of LiS1 (and media that isn't explicit in general).

+ Can skip cutscenes after initial playthrough (yay).

- Dontnod tends to tackle questions of morality in their games, which I'm always interested in. However, I struggled to feel any major impact from the decisions presented in TMW. The only scene which makes a deep impression in my view is the 'negative' ending. The remaining choices and consequences felt extremely bland, and more like jaded filler material that consumed the overwhelming majority of every episode.

- As another reviewer mentioned, the narrative conflict is already resolved within the first episode. The audience is made aware of the protagonist's misunderstanding/confusion over past memories, and that the supposed antagonist was maligned unjustly (the FAQ section on the official TMW website confirms this to be true). This instantly kills player curiosity and makes the road ahead a dreary one. LiS2 had a similar narrative error: forcing players to initiate a long, tedious and ultimately pointless journey across the country to avoid incrimination when there is absolutely no proof that staying put would have resulted in it, and basically spoiling the ending. Compare TMW and LiS2 with LiS1, which gives the player hints but never states definitively what will happen and also manages to shock the majority with a great plot twist.
 

TafferKnight
279 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 July, 2022
Product received for free

I would give a middle thumb if there was an option, but leaning towards do not recommend.

Cons:
- I feel like things were too predictable, you would figure something out from the plot and then have to wait hours for the characters to get to the same conclusion.
- The characters aren't particularly interesting but they aren't unlikeable.
- The limited number of characters definitely contributes to the predictability as you don't have many options of who could've done what.
- Ending was very anticlimactic and a bit of a letdown, didn't really feel like an ending, feels like nothing was resolved.
-superpowers for no reason and no explanation
-Some scenes felt like there should have been a choice, but instead its outcome is based on something like the bond between characters which kind of annoyed me because in these scenes I genuinely thought the game was gonna present me with options, maybe the character bond thing should be used on less important interactions.

Pros:
-I like most of the plot, but it was quite predictable at times.
-Good lgbt+ representation
-I was curious enough to finish it so it wasn't that bad I guess.
-I feel like in these types of games you often have to do a lot helping other people before they help you (like life is strange) but this game doesn't do that which is nice so the game keeps its focus on the main story.
-Puzzle sections.
 

Well-groomed Crow
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2024
Product received for free

I have issues with no audio and crashing at startup.

Looking it up on the community forums, this has been a issue for quite some time. On top of that, this is literally the only game I have that has issues running in this fashion. The communication channels available with the devs are sparse and unresponsive.

It feels like the devs have abandoned the game by ignoring bug reports and it feels like virtue signalling by making it free every year.

I was really looking forward to playing this game :(
 

norph.star
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 15 March, 2021
I'm a fan of the studio and think they make great games. I loved LIS and thought it was amazing but after just playing the first episode of this game I cant say that it has the same quality that LIS had. First and foremost the transition into revealing that the twins had superpowers was super lazy. While I understand there may not be an easy way to do that in LIS that handled it pretty well. Also while I do respect the Transgender sci-fi story which given the times we live in I'm sure will be a huge hit with current audiences, I have to say that the protagonist is unbearable, annoying, and quite simply a pain. I get that they are the main character but the in game personality is just snobbish, self-centered, and just whiny when things dont go their way. As far as the in game elements go, the world is just as immersive as it was in LIS, cool little details, collectibles, and interactions in the environment. All in all as far as the game itself is I think its a good experience but mainly the storytelling and really the protagonist kind of ruin this game for me. I actually was relieved when I could actually play as the sister and not be this snobbish annoying transitioning male or female? I'm not entirely sure. I don't know if that's normal for people who are transitioning and they wanted to give a realistic depiction of what it's like for a trans-person transitioning but for me personally it kind of turned me off from the game. Again I respect the representation but maybe have the main character be a bit more bearable and this game would be a bit more tolerable. Also storytelling is eh. Cool premise but poor execution is what I'm trying to say.
 

Prince of the Land of Stench!
115 products in account
1
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.2 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2021
Product received for free

Chapter 2 done, got it for free during June ... and I will complete the 3rd chapter, just because, but damn, I feel like my time's been robbed.

Let's put aside the "main issue" people are going to have with this game (apparently), namely the transgender protagonist. I don't get it. You know, the whole plot doesn't really revolve around Tyler becoming Tyler. It feels tacked on. Sure, the game wants to sell you his transitory nature as being the BIG issue of why his mother is dead, but it's pretty clear from the outset that that isn't even the case.

I think a lot of the dialogue feels forced. After 5 hours all I've done in this game is walking and talking ... or sitting and talking. It moves at a glacial pace... and right now is when it could turn out to be interesting, yet it's almost over. Trying to find out what really happened? Sure, but game needed more player agency for one and a better story flow, because the story that is there is bare bones.

I'm starting to think that Dontnod just got EXTREMELY lucky with Life is Strange. None of their other works after that comes close to it. Maybe Before the Storm ... and they didn't develop that one.
Captain Spirit was fun, because it was short and impactful, but LiS 2 already dropped the ball with overly annoying protagonists and a meandering plot with weak side characters, as well as boring gameplay. How did they manage to make the gameplay more boring than in their first attempt at this?

Tell my why stumbles into the same pit falls imho. Alyson is a blank slate with no character, while Tyler is an overly aggressive and egotistical expletive. That may of course be, because of his more unique background, but that's just the thing: Us "regular folk" will never really understand what it's like to be born in the wrong body (or feel like it, because at the end of the day we're just chemicals being passed from one point to another). It might help if Tyler were just an otherwise interesting character ... or Alyson at least. The two "can" be at odds ... and sometimes the game offers you choices that are not "black/black" or "black/white", but so far that's happened very rarely and most of the time Tyler just comes across as a total expletive.

The side characters are grey and boring as well.
There's the well-meaning "redneck" Sam, who immediately wants to shoot Tyler because of supposed trespassing and then stumbles from one "queer" pitfall into another. Give the dude a break, he's living in the backwoods and is in his 50s. He's still trying, but Tyler can only treat him like ♥♥♥♥.
We have the devout Christian "aunt", who of course wanted to put Tyler through conversion camp ... or at least suggested it. I feel like that's just another uniquely American thing, but surely that does exist. To be fair to her, that's how she's been raised and manipulated. And once again: This is a very rural place, not New York City.
In 30 years a guy like Tyler will have his own prejudices.
And of course there's the "uncle" police officer who took Alyson in after the murder, but keeps secrets.

All of the characters remain uninteresting and shallow though. You're not building a relationship with them. They're just there to put blame on at various points in the game... and always it's Tyler doing the blaming, sometimes justified, more often though not.

These protagonists have been through much, are in their early 20s (I guess) and haven't seen each other in 10 years, but now Tyler is angry that people aren't falling on their knees, begging him to let them tell him everything they remember from 10 years ago. He's an outsider ... and these people, the community, they try to move on. They're not in the right, of course, but threatening and bullying people to get them to tell you the truth is anything but mature.
But I shouldn't be surprised, because the game is wrapping its supposedly mature content in a children's book about "crafty goblins". It just feels weird and out of place. It worked in the LiS flashback episode, because Chloe and Max were actually kids then. Here it just feels awkward.

Of course I forgot Michael, who of course is also gay/bi/whatever and immediately starts hitting on Tyler the moment he sees him. That's ... weird, my man. And anything else is severe spoiler territory, but the whole enemies and allies concept is a bit irritating. They're people. Some are going to like and accept you, others won't. You can't make them like you. These things, unfortunately perhaps, need time ... and not constant in your face bombardment, as in the case of Michael, he plays no role of import whatsoever.

I remember how in LiS you had actual gameplay, you could impact the lives of others, you could learn more about others and the story still moved at a brisk pace and was packed with emotions. Or maybe I got old(er still), but I still look back fondly to that game. I spent weeks scouring forums about explanations, fan theories, etc.
I couldn't care less about any of the other characters Dontnod have come up with since ... and it doesn't help when you can't skip dialogue or scenes, especially when you're repeating them.
Max and Chloe felt more natural, their relationship developed over the course of 5 episodes and in the end they could be more than friends. Tyler and Alyson on the other hand are siblings ... and supremely irritating people. Their relationship doesn't develop, because they don't have a relationship outside their childhood memories and shared tragedies, yet they never talk about what the other one really feels or wants (because the plot needs to happen).
It just feels like Dontnod wanted a Transgender game in the style of LiS, because that's "hot" right now, but forgot to craft an actual game around it.
Uncovering actual clues about the past is kinda interesting, the rest isn't.
Maybe people from the LGBTIQ+etc. community (sorry, I can't keep up with what acronym is the politically correct one today) will find more enjoyment and representation, I can fully understand that. Personally, I just like romance in games to be an optional pursuit by the player. I'd rather have an actual plot I can follow and "solve". I doubt LiS 3 will be any better.

Some suggestions perhaps:
The game already uses this fantasy setting, why not make actual use of it? Experiencing the trauma perhaps in fantasy-like nightmare settings. At least that would break up the monotony of the game.
Get rid of mundane ♥♥♥♥ like "housekeeping" ... that's a cutscene worth 30 seconds to 1 minute at most, not a "gameplay" feature. Like so much in the game that is just filler content, because the actual story is only 30 minutes long.
Have some actually invested characters. Introduce a morality system perhaps that let's you get one someone's good/bad side. You can antagonize the whole town and your twin ... or you could try and not be a ♥♥♥♥... and maybe get some answers.
That would also make it possible to give the players more freedom in how they want to tackle the game, i.e. the overarching story is "find out why your mother did what she did" ... but it feels like you get this big info dump and at the end of the episode the whole picture changes (which surprised almost nobody)
Some actual game mechanics, less cringe-worthy dialogue, and some real stakes are needed. And you need to be able to fail!
And finally for the "power" in the game, why not let us manipulate the past? Alyson and Tyler often have conflicting memories of what happened. All you can do is pick one (and piss the other twin off .. lol). Why not "Batman" this ♥♥♥♥ and try to find out what really happened? This would of course affect the story and the ending. However it would also have required actual effort, instead of a cliché story that can only play out one way.

I know I'm describing more of an RPG now, but man, this game came out in 2020 ... not in 2010. It deserves more actual gameplay features. It shouldn't be too hard to at least give us 2 different paths to follow.
 

Dire
1,301 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
This game is so boring ... sorry but there are better games to play
 

MrChewbee
79 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2022
The story is boring in my humble opinion
 

N8Echo
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2022
Product received for free

It is soooo boring! this is the slowest game i have ever played. it takes away controle so often and you just have to wait so mush before you can do anything!
 

alexkool84
0
147 people found this review helpful
10 people found this review funny 11

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
So boring...I mean...like REALLY boring. So much dialogue, boring dialogue....and then the news stories make it sound like you are getting the entire game for free...but no they hare doing that bait and switch BS where they give you 1 chapter and then you have to buy more chapters to finish the game.

I hate these games that do that sneaky crap, not to mention there is NO WAY in hell I would consider paying $20 per chapter for such a boring game...I mean maybe if there was more interesting dialogue...but nope...boring as hell...HARD PASS!!
 

Shaddam
650 products in account
0
17 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
I just can't believe this is made by Dontnod. I saw this producer so I raised the expectation, but then...the whole thing doesn't feel right: the interaction, people gesture, graphics, GUI, story. Everything looks so different from life is strange series. I just wanna say WTF ?? It feels like sth rushed in a short period of time without deep consideration. I just don't buy it. Won't spend much time on it.
 

desmond132518
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
11.2 hrs on record
Posted: 28 March, 2021
MEH
I played the free chapter and I enjoyed it, sort of. But not enough to spend $20 on the other two.
Tyler is typical for his gen and whines about everything, everyone owes him something, life isn't fair.
Alyson is boring- trying to fix everyone, and following everyone else around instead of walking her own path.
I don't see this going anywhere.
I doubt I will finish it since chapter one explained basically the whole premise of the game.
 

drigie
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
The way this game's introduction and how the main characters are introduced to the shtick of this game seemed rushed and inorganic to the story telling unlike previous games. I tried to push through it a few times but just couldn't get into it. The concept of the shtick and the characters are all there, idk, it just seems like they wanted to rush to the reveal?
 

Professor Hobbton
683 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 September, 2020
Overall The story would be great if the ending wasn't horrible, that being said I can't forgive how insufferable Tyler is as a character hes just whiny and annoying. He should of been wrote better, although the story has its moments they all fall flat by the end due to how unsatisfying the pay off is at the end. Also without spoiling anything its pretty obvious who the Mad Hunter is if you pay attention even if you don't figure it out there's only a couple of possible options so its relatively obvious. I love DontNod but this one is not your best work will continue to support your games but "Woke" Tyler and a bad ending isn't it. thumbs up to Alyson and Michael as characters they were interesting and were relatable
 

MidnightWarrior
628 products in account
0
13 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
I've always loved telltale games and games that were similar so I decided to give this game a try and my god it was awful. Its horridly boring and it was just not a pleasant game to play. The graphics are beautiful but it doesn't make up for how lame this game is."SPOILER If you'd call it that". The main character of this game is trans which is fine but they made the reveal so awkward and uncomfortable to watch. I personally couldn't play through the rest of the episode. If you're fine with very slow and boring interactions, Annoying main characters voice, and just enjoy pressing left click to look at a slowly approaching bridge then by all means play this game. "What would you do exile?"-Metallica
 

ExtremeAniki
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.9 hrs on record
Posted: 5 July, 2024
Product received for free

I can't really recommend this to anyone, especially now that it's no longer free. I really only finished the game because I was curious. It was a little disappointing. Just incredibly slow-paced, and the ending was a little underwhelming. Honestly left me more confused than anything. I expected better from the creators of Life is Strange.
 

Salamat ミクfan
222 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
11.1 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2021
Sigh…I just don’t know what Dontnod is doing these days. I’m pretty thrilled Deck Nine is making the next Life is Strange as I just don’t trust Dontnod anymore. I haven’t played Twin Mirror…so maybe that’s amazing…but I doubt it. Twin Mirror supposedly takes between 6-7hrs to beat, my problem with Tell Me Why is it’s only 12hrs long. So I assume Twin Mirror suffers from the same issues this game does. The main issue is this game just doesn’t feel complete, everything about it feels half baked. This needed to be 20hrs long to develop both the ideas it’s trying to convey as well as to just develop the characters. 12hrs just isn’t enough and honestly you can probably finish this in 10hrs.

It’s a shame because I really liked a lot of the characters in this story and the setting and it’s all just wasted. It’s a very linear game. You don’t get to really explore things. The town seems really small, with the town being so small I wanted to be able to walk around and explore the town and get to know the people there and find out the small town secrets and how this tragic accident of your mothers death affected the Town. Instead you get mainly 3 places to visit: Your House, The Police Station, and the General Store. I think in total you interact with basically 5 people (Tom, Tessa, Eddy, Michael, Sam). The scope of this game is just so small.

For a Dontnod game it is also extremely linear. The main gameplay element is this idea that you and your twin can share memories and talk psychically and you can remember things differently. How you remember events basically have no impact on the story…probably because the story is so short there is no time for it to have an effect. Nor are there really any other decisions that change events in the game. Sure the ending is different depending on what your very last choice is, but that’s it. It feels like someone had this great idea of what happens if two people remember an event differently…but then never really developed that concept. The characters don’t even really disagree or really discuss the fact that they remember events differently.

Overall, the story of the game is also just very weak and doesn’t feel like the writers knew what they were doing or wanted. I think the game wanted to explore this narrative of what it would be like to be a trans individual dealing with questions of identity…but then decided people might not want to play a game solely exploring that issue so they then bolted on this mystery story…and it just doesn’t work. The reason it doesn’t work is because the mystery they created is just not interesting.

So without going into spoilers, the “mystery” of the game is the twins attempting to discover if their mother tried to murder them when they were children because she was so upset that one of them was trans or if something else was going on. This attempted murder resulted in the twins killing their mother in self defense and the trans character being sent to basically an upscale juvenile detention facility. I just didn’t care, the game I wanted would have been more along the lines of confronting people in the town over the insane injustice of bringing a criminal murder conviction against a character solely on the basis of them being trans…this issue is literally never addressed, other than a random statement that “the justice system failed them.”

The rest is going to be spoilers, but really this game fails pretty much solely on the basis of it’s story. 







It sure feels like Dontnod is great at writing characters and dialogue…but they need to focus up. Stop telling half baked stories, make longer games with more characters, more decisions that matter…don’t put out games that are short and the stories feel incomplete.
 

Conciliator
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2023
Too much narrative for me, and got punished for exploration in the first area. In the first hour of playing I only got to make 1 choice...
 

Lashwrithe
178 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 22 April, 2021
Way too slow and boring.

I mean, probably there are people who like it, but I found the pacing to be way too slow and the overall tone is melodramatic and hollow. Could not get past the first chapter.
 

tavitatavi
135 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2021
My most wasted game time ever
 

Milk Drinker
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 November, 2020
with all the interesting concepts in the game i'm impressed dontnod managed to make such a snoozefest.
 

SKULLBUTT
756 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2024
You can't skip ahead with the voices if you're a fast reader & you can't just let it play in the background to do something else because they put interactive choices in-between character dialogue.

Because of these reasons, I'm out.
 

Pharos
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: 6 May, 2024
Very slow pacing and the dialogue is awful. It is a shame Tyler isn't a well written character. The choices only matter to the two endings you can achieve. Other than that the game is nice. I liked the scenery, but you can only do so much with that. It is less a game than a limited interactive story.
 

GrimaceFrown
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2021
i really wanted to like this game. lgbtq representation is so important and i love that they had a trans male lead. but oh my gosh was this story so drawn out and boring. i didn't understand why there was SO much overblown drama regarding certain things. i'm glad i got this for free during june because i would have asked for a refund :(
 

samipiggy
114 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 November, 2021
Badly written. Looks good. Meh voice acting, sounds like they are reading their individual lines, which is what they do actually. But the intonations are wrong, they sound like out of context sentences. Slow, clunky movement. Too much stuff to interact with, because the things they have to say about those items are super vague, cliche, boring and vapid. Just comes down to bad writing. Just dont interact with anything. Also no clear sense of direction for how the story is supposed to progress and what im supposed to do most of the time. Sometimes they just straight up awkawrdly tell you exactly what you're supposed to do.
 

Baffy
0
12 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 20 March, 2021
A multi-hour-long guilt trip about how its bad to physically harm trans people. Brilliant stuff guys. This is on a par with David Cage telling us how bad slavery was. Being trans does not make a character more interesting. Nor does being gay, or whatever ethnic/sexual/gender/religious minority you're milking for wokeness points that day.

Repeat after me:
Being trans is not a substitute for a good personality.
Being trans is not a substitute for well-written dialogue.
Being trans is not a substitute for an engaging core gameplay loop.

If you want to explore political issues, that's fine. But don't do so by making a strawman of your opponents. Engage the issue in its proper degree of complexity, rather than a one-sided lecture.

At least it had a fitting name, because after I was done I wanted someone to "Tell Me Why" I wasted my time with it.
 

Exotic Butters
293 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
Just... boring tbh. Very slow paced. The end of the first episode was really the only interesting part. Very disappointing seeing as I loved Life is Strange 2. Was expecting better for this one!
 

teddytivi
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 21 September, 2024
Not cool 3/10
 

TECATES LIGHT 2025
60 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2024
I was a bit bored, long tedious story, maybe the second part will be more interesting, I don't know.
 

VladGromov
526 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
I gave Tell Me Why a solid 44 minutes of my time, and honestly, I was struggling. I’ve played a lot of story-driven games, but this one... let’s just say, it makes watching paint dry feel like an action-packed thriller. The characters? About as exciting as a loaf of bread. The writing? Flat enough to make pancakes jealous. And the pacing? Slower than a snail stuck in molasses.

By the time I hit the 44-minute mark, literally nothing had happened that made me care about the story or the two main characters. Maybe it gets better later on, but something should’ve hooked me by now, right? Unfortunately, I just couldn’t find a reason to stick around to find out.
 

Ajja Sudu Aya
388 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.7 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March
Not sure what I make of this one. I've played other DONTNOD titles and this just felt a bit weak. I get the story it's trying to tell, I just don't think it makes for a compelling one. There's not much in terms of gameplay either, it's effectively a very long cutscene with occasional dialogue choices and reading-based puzzles. Although it's fairly boring for the first two chapters, it does become a bit more interesting towards the end and perhaps contrary to what the game was trying to do I felt more attached to Alyson's part of the story. You might get more mileage out of the game if you identify with Tyler's story, and don't find the VA as grating as I did.
 

overdark
1,917 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.3 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2024
Product received for free

I mean it's ok but i would lower the price to 10 euros T_T
The only good thing that comes to mind about this game is it's creativity with some parts of the story and all the inclusivity.
Game moves too slow in general and some scenes are long and boring. I highly disliked that sometimes after a cutscene we would get thrown into an inescapable situation where we can only move the camera and listen to characters' dialogues. Just make it a cutscene and call it a day. Camera movement is overall kind of bad in my opinion. Throughout my whole playthrough i felt like the devs were trying to stretch the story to its extend just for the sake of gameplay hours.
The story had some plot twists but nothing too unexpectable. I was only caught off guard like once? Idk.
It's also kinda buggy, for me atleast. Characters moved weird sometimes and there was some dialogue overlapping.
Grab it for free every June for easy achievements and a silly game to pass ur time on. Nothing too unique or nothing i haven't seen before. If you're looking for a LiS kind of game, don't buy the game...
 

festeringdesire
118 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2024
Snoozefest
 

lucy
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2024
This bored me to tears I actually could not play another minute
 

midnight
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 24 March, 2022
Lotta detail in the animations and such yet I still got very bugged by the poor quality but I didn't mind it too much and tried to follow the story but honestly I just got bored so fast sadly.
 

FYNN
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.0 hrs on record
Posted: 12 July, 2024
I really wanted to like this game but it is just sooo boring.
There is not enough gameplay for my liking and while the story has really interesting aspects its execution is not really good.
It bareley matters what choices you make and by god was the main protagonist Tyler annoying.
Maybe others like him but to me he was a self centered prick and just because he is trans doesn't make him relatable. Give him character instead of him just being trans.

Please don't feel attacked if you truly like this game but I am still kinda salty I wasted my time.


 

MissNiqqui
0
2 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
Posted: 12 October, 2021
Tell me why this was made
 

Filthy_Ampersand
0
12 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 6 March, 2021
What a waste of time, boring predictable story, awkward animations and tedious gameplay.. Worst of the dontnod games.
 

Y0UG3K1
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.4 hrs on record
Posted: 28 January, 2023
A really really great concept with poor execution. This game was *Almost* SO good. Maybe it was a time crunch issue, but god - what a dissapointment.
 

Putrid Moldyman
444 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2021
Im 40 mins in and im sorry I want it back 40 mins with 2 of the most boring characters ever writen and ♥♥♥♥ all happens. If it wasnt free I'd refund
 

KingCornelius
364 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 9 January, 2022
Product received for free

Not everyone's cup of tea.
Story is just so slow and boring with more than half of just useless chit chat.
Gameplay is just choose X or Y, then watch unskippable cutscenes till eternity.
 

Jonny Bhai
74 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2021
Only half as preachy as Life is Strange 2
Story:ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
German Dub and German Sub varry in its content
The Lovestory with Michael shouldnt have room in this overbloated story.
 

UltraSven
302 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.4 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2021
L.G.B.T.Q.I.A.+. 🏳️‍🌈

Being a hardcore fan of DONTNOD Entertainment's work (LIS Series), I was expecting much more out of this game. DONTNOD Entertainment is known for their excellent story-line and sound tracks, but this one lacked both of them.

- I dragged myself through Episode-1, it was literally that boring. I get it, the 1st Episode is generally for story-building but still, they could have done better.
- No complaints with the concept, it was excellent but they could have done so much more with it. I felt like I was playing a developmental version of LIS, only slow and boring.
- Great Character Design, Love how they developed Tyler throughout the story. Again, the concept and targeting the welfare of LGBTQIA+ community was a great initiative (Yay! It's Pride month too 🏳️‍🌈, After 7 days I'm realising why they are giving out this game for free.)
- One annoying thing was, It can often be difficult to find the exact place the game wants you to stand or point the camera to interact with something.


***********************************************************

🔰 DIFFICULTY 🔰
✅ Easy
🔲 Normal
🔲 Hard
🔲 A challenge to be reckoned
🔲 In the heat of confrontation, treat your opponent with respect


🔰 GRAPHICS 🔰
🔲 MS Paint
🔲 Bad
🔲 Meh
🔲 Graphics don't matter for this game
✅ Good (nothing special)
🔲 An original artistic direction
🔲 Beautiful
🔲 Masterpiece


🔰 STORY 🔰
🔲 This game has no story
🔲 Basic element of the contractual requirements
✅ It's there for people who want it
🔲 Well written
🔲 Leading to more in-depth researches/thoughts
🔲 A model to get inspired by


🔰 LENGTH 🔰
🔲 Long enough for a cup of tea
✅ Short
🔲 Average
🔲 Long
🔲 To infinity and beyond


🔰 MUSIC 🔰
🔲 Just filling noises/No music
🔲 Trivial and uneventful
🔲 Good and/or fitting the game's artistic dispositions
✅ Memorable
🔲 Transcending whispers of a forgotten world


🔰 INTEREST 🔰
🔲 I would rather watch paint dry
✅ Hard to enjoy
🔲 Repetitive and/or uninspired
🔲 A good moment
🔲 Sticking out of the pack
🔲 You will remember it long after


🔰 REPLAYABILITY 🔰
✅ A one-time experience
🔲 Only for achievements
🔲 If you wait a few months/years (or with mods)
🔲 Definitely
🔲 Infinitely Replayable (or almost)


🔰 BUGS 🔰
✅ Never heard of
🔲 Minor bugs
🔲 Can get annoying
🔲 Impacts the player's experience
🔲 The game itself is a big terrarium for bugs


🔰 REQUIREMENTS 🔰
🔲 You can run it on a microwave
🔲 Low
✅ Average
🔲 High end
🔲 NASA computer


🔰 PRICE 🔰
🔲 Free
🔲 Underpriced
✅ Perfect Price
🔲 Could be cheaper
🔲 Overpriced
🔲 Complete waste of money


🔰 WORTH BUYING 🔰
✅ No
🔲 If you have nothing else to play
🔲 Wait for sale
🔲 Yes

***********************************************************

Final Verdict: 6/10
I was expecting so much more from "Tell Me Why" being a production of DONTNOD Entertainment. Hopefully LIS: True Colours won't disappoint me.
 

Infinitus
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
17.5 hrs on record
Posted: 17 April, 2021
It's more linear than other games in the DONTNOD catalogue, It's like an interactive movie opposed to a game. Chapter 1 has a cool puzzle though, But that's about it.

EDIT: After finishing the game. I have mixed feelings. I mean The visuals of the locations are great, the characters are a bit thrown together so they act in ways that only fit the story. The story, emotional and depressing. The puzzles combined with the corresponding story? meh, skip it. I don't really like fantastical stories other than the Shrek movies. So unfortunately that pull in the story and "story within a story" is lost on me.

BTW; I'm one of the few that actually paid for this game :/

I hope True Colours is better than this "story game".
 

Jesse
0
3 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
14.8 hrs on record
Posted: 27 November, 2020
This game was an huge disappointment. It started quite well, to the point that I was hoping it would be a LiS1 spiritual successor (sorry Dontnod but LiS2 was just a big nope), but it was not the case.
The two main characters had potential but turned out to be pretty bland, the story overall is highly predictable and the two main endings are actually just one ending with an alternative version that doesn't make any sense and invalidate the whole point of the story ().
I guess some people may like it, especially thanks to the whole queer aspect of the game (Dontnod is well-known for this afterall), but overall it was yes, a pleasant experience, but not noteworthy at all. Graphic is okay though, and the setting (Alaska) is very nice. 5/10.
 

Sayu_shoot
108 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2021
I enjoyed the first Life is Strange, but this one didn't do anything for me. These games live and die on the writing, and the dialogue here seems very forced and unnatural. As for puzzles, the game seems to take you by the hand even moreso than in most games of the genre. I'll pass...
 

Klampus
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 27 November, 2023
I played the first chapter and so far it's been quite slow and with little chance to actual interaction. Too many cut scenes.
 

DarthKiddo
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
15.0 hrs on record
Posted: 21 August, 2022
Not a game for me, far too slow. It feels like one long cut scene.
 

zachjd
358 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2024
This game wouldve benefitted from a speed up button, like the one in trails of cold steel.
 

Spooktown
223 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 27 November, 2023
Product received for free

too slow
i usually like this kind of games, but this is way too slow
 

Scaredofbroccoli
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 29 July, 2023
Ending was OK but it was a struggle to get there.
 

The Adam Bomb86
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 27 October, 2021
It is extremely boring
 

Gooose
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.0 hrs on record
Posted: 24 July, 2023
On paper, "Tell Me Why" sounded promising and the game had good aspects as well. I found the story generally quite good, as well as the graphics and music/voices. But there were really moments where I would have been really, really happy if you could increase the speed of walking or the conversations. The story was also too slowly at times. But if you are looking for a game about transgender issues, I would recommend it specifically. The topic is approached sensitively, but not in a kitschy or exaggerated manner.

Résumé: Sadly, I would not buy the game again.
 

Miss_TaiPan
168 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.6 hrs on record
Posted: 29 September, 2020
I just can't honestly, and with a straight face say that this game is good or recommend it for others. I have played DontNod's Life is Strange and I found the story (while slow initially) captivating within the first episode. The story, combined with the time travel mechanic kept me WANTING to play, guessing at what would happen next, and find new ways to explore interactions with NPCs with rewinding time. Luckily, I skipped paying money for LiS 2 as I watched a friend stream an episode and found it missed all of the magic that made the original game compelling.

Here we are again.

1. The main character so far is just kind of insufferable in some of the dialogue, and its to the point where I as a rational adult don't really have a choice in some dialogue options to not speak to people like a ♥♥♥♥ when playing as him. And just as a side note the dialogue is not as interactive as LiS. In general the game is just very linear. So linear, that the end of chapter 1 has the same "choice" presented as two different outcomes/choices.

2. There seems to be this whole "goblin" thing going with these 2 characters you play as. However, I feel that much like LiS 2 - this is just something the writers of the game's story think (emphasis on think) is some creative narrative style because much like the "two wolves" from LiS 2 - this "goblin" nonsense is just that. It doesn't seem like it will go anywhere meaningful for the player.

3. The plot hook before the end of the first chapter is just totally illogical. The entire premise is that two siblings who watched their mother chase one (the future transgender) to a dock and point a gun at them while shouting "I'm going to kill you" are now confused about if they should have killed her because they found a book about raising your transgender child. For some reason, instead of just reaching the conclusion like a sane person that she just dismissed the book's content as rubbish, or THAT SHE JUST HAD MENTAL ISSUES - the presence of this book in her room causes them to question the event. Completely contrived garbage.

4. The night their mother died is the most ridiculous portrayal of a police investigation I've seen in a "serious" game in a long time. Spoiler alert, the sister kill the mom by stabbing her in the back. She hears the mother screaming while drinking melted ice cream in the kitchen, and comes to save her sibling. Somehow, when the two kids tell the police that only the one sibling being attacked was involved and killed the mom in self defense, they didn't have any questions about why she was stabbed in the back. Or, who was drinking this ice cream spilled all over the floor in the kitchen? Who investigated this? Barney Fife?

5. Last but not least, the game is just seemingly heading for a cliff where the ending is just that the mom had mental issues. I'm assuming this before I have even reached chapter 3 because every character in the game never talks about it as a possibility even once so far. If that really is the ending/explanation then this game is even worse than I think now, and I might come back to edit this to expand on it.
 

Call of Bussy
0
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.2 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2024
Objective interpretation, hardware report, and total game progress

Tell Me Why is a 3rd person adventure game. The game was ran on an Intel 13900k/Nvidia 4090. No system crashes noted and zero crashes to desktop occurred. One full play through was completed at 4k resolution, with max graphical settings, and steam achievement perfection was attained.

1/10 overall score and steam review template is posted below the subjective interpretation

Subjective interpretation

Well this review is certainly going to be harsh. Before I start I wish to say that my take on this game is based on the actual game itself, and not the social issue content within the game. I'm a proponent of LGBTQ+ rights generally; nevertheless, I will be focusing on the entertainment value of the game, as I do for all games. The game ran well. No bugs or crashes. The graphics were of low quality for a 2020 title. The textures on many objects appeared very muddy, and this is problematic because all you do in this game is look at stuff, ergo if everything looks horrible you're not achieving any sort of aesthetic fulfillment. Sometimes the textures are so bad that you can't read off the object you're looking at. Of course there is a feature in this game that will transfer the text of the object to a text window for you to read. I guess they perceived that this would be an issue, but they took the lazy way out and just put the text into a box. I would say the most prevalent problem of this game is its astounding lack of detail, and this present in all categories that contribute to someones recreational satisfaction. This is extremely present within the graphical realm of this game as many objects are missing parts of the models. For example barrels have no bottoms, thus if you're to look into one you would see the ground texture. The lack of detail extends to the acoustics of the title as well.

Music is very infrequent in this game, and only plays during certain cinematic parts. Nothing memorable musically, and this is disappointing, as music can server to amplify the emotional immersion of the player. This game is trying to make you feel emotion, but utterly fails at it, and this lack of musical incorporation is a missed opportunity to enhance of the quality of the game. The voice acting is flat, no emotion, and it feels like the actors are just reading off lines. Honestly, I expect a more emotive reaction from someone who's life is being threatened with a double barrel shot gun, but I guess this is too much to ask from this game. The gameplay involves you interacting with objects, and reading in order to attain information to help you solve a few puzzles. Since the appearance of the object brings me no pleasure all I am left with is reading. I could read one of the millions of books out there if I wanted to be entertained in this manner, and doing it to solve a puzzle feels like a chore. Lets talking about the story now.

The astounding lack of detail extends to the narrative of this game. The developers got small details incorrect, which further hamper the players immersion within the title. Details such as the local fauna of the environment or the appearance of a Russian orthodox church. For the fauna this game includes mentioning of skunks and raccoons being present in south east Alaska, however, these animals are not present in Alaska at all. The architecture of the Russian orthodox church is incorrect as well and appears to be more protestant in appearance. I could go on and on about the small details eroding the quality of this game, but I feel my point has being established. The sentiment that I am left with is why would I care about this story if the developers didn't seem to care about it. I feel like this game was a monetization of LGBTQ+ rights, however, it is free at the moment, but I don't recommend adding it to your library. The non giveaway price of 20$ for this game is just criminal and players should be compensated for their time playing this game instead of paying for it. This game is an absolute waste of time, and players should avoid it.

---{ Graphics }---
☐ You forget what reality is
☐ Beautiful
☐ Good
☐ Decent
☐ Bad
☑ Don‘t look too long at it
☐ MS-DOS

---{ Gameplay }---
☐ Very good
☐ Good
☐ It's just gameplay
☐ Mehh
☐ Watch paint dry instead
☑ Just don't

---{ Audio }---
☐ Eargasm
☐ Very good
☐ Good
☐ Not too bad
☑ Bad
☐ I'm now deaf

---{ Audience }---
☐ Kids
☑ Teens
☐ Adults
☐ Grandma

---{ PC Requirements }---
☐ Check if you can run paint
☑ Potato
☐ Decent
☐ Fast
☐ Rich boi
☐ Ask NASA if they have a spare computer

---{ Game Size }---
☐ Floppy Disk
☑ Old Fashioned
☐ Workable
☐ Big
☐ Will eat 10% of your 1TB hard drive
☐ You will want an entire hard drive to hold it
☐ You will need to invest in a black hole to hold all the data

---{ Difficulty }---
☑ Just press 'W'
☐ Easy
☐ Easy to learn / Hard to master
☐ Significant brain usage
☐ Difficult
☐ Dark Souls

---{ Grind }---
☑ Nothing to grind
☐ Only if u care about leaderboards/ranks
☐ Isn't necessary to progress
☐ Average grind level
☐ Too much grind
☐ You'll need a second life for grinding

---{ Story }---
☐ No Story
☑ Some lore
☐ Average
☐ Good
☐ Lovely
☐ It'll replace your life

---{ Game Time }---
☐ Long enough for a cup of coffee
☑ Short
☐ Average
☐ Long
☐ To infinity and beyond

---{ Price }---
☑ It's free!
☐ Worth the price
☐ If it's on sale
☐ If u have some spare money left
☐ Not recommended
☐ You could also just burn your money

---{ Bugs }---
☑ Never heard of
☐ Minor bugs
☐ Can get annoying
☐ ARK: Survival Evolved
☐ The game itself is a big terrarium for bugs

---{ 1 / 10 }---
☑ 1
☐ 2
☐ 3
☐ 4
☐ 5
☐ 6
☐ 7
☐ 8
☐ 9
☐ 10
 

Karl
416 products in account
2
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 May, 2021
I really wanted to like this game. But I was so incredibly bored when I played this game. However, I am a completionist where I feel like I have to finish a game, even if I hate it, otherwise it feels like a waste of money. It was difficult to push through and finish because I was very disinterested in everything going on. The story is alright but it just drags on and on. There were no shockers or twists, very predictable.
 

Queen Laffy
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.3 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Just finished playing through the Episode 1 (for free). The story seems ok so far, the graphics are ok, but the gameplay (read: moving around, finding objects and interacting with them) is, for the most part, atrocious.

I would like to know how the game ends but...I don't think I ever will. I just don't have the patience to try to get the character move to the exactly right spot in the exactly right angle to be able to interact with an object while being blogged by chair, etc.

It has its flaws but it is not a bad game. So, if you don't mind occasionally annoying controls, then I do recommend you give it a try (at least while the Episode 1 is free).
 

AwA
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2021
Product received for free

...what an absolute slugfest of a "game".

The player agency is non-existent.
The story is an absolute bore.
The characters are hollow uninteresting shells of what they could be.
The powers the twins have are never addressed nor explained, they are like Palpatine's "He got better. Oh, all right, I guess."
All of the scenes are unskippable prolonging the playtime artificially –⁠ a problem especially harmful were you to replay this.
The movement of the characters (mainly Alyson) look like they were possessed by an evil Japanese spirit jerking their heads and bodies around when talking.

I can't imagine this thing being appealing even to transpeople, which is a shame.
Paying nothing for this is paying too much.
 

Queegon
74 products in account
2
9 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 8 September, 2020
LIS is one of my favorite games, so I was hoping TMW would be similar. It is in some ways, it has the same style and music, but i just don't care about the characters.
If you've played Before The Storm you know that, even though you like Chloe, her behavior and dialogue is childish and annoying and a lot of the interactions made you cringe. I'm getting BTS Chloe vibes from the twins and they are not very likeable either so it's hard to sympathize with them.

the story is good though

Edit: Just finished the last episode and it was 10x better than the first two. They still managed to ruin some intense/emotional moments with badly delivered dialogue, but i did feel captured by the story. Really don't know if I should recommend this game or not.
 

chuck
2
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2022
"None of your friends have played this game recently. Tell them why they should." They shouldn't
 

wastenova
0
13 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
could not find screwdriver
edit: found screwdriver but got bored
 

cob709
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2021
BO-RING
 

Amphid
62 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2024
I hate my ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ facecaaaam. #PityParty
 

JigenDaisuke
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
27.8 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
S'aight...

Beautiful visuals. Good voice acting. The story is what most people play games like these for. This one's unfortunately falls short.

*Minor spoilers for all Life is Strange games*





I'll say that this game feels like it really flounders. You can tell the game is trying to channel some of what made LiS 1&2 unique. You've got the great atmospheric shots, the supernatural powers, and the stupid ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ dead parent plot that they managed to cram into all three of the LiS games. Thing is, all three of the LiS games (four if you count Captain Spirit) managed to handle that same (sub)plot in a different way.

LiS1- You get an outsider's (Max's) point of view on the death of Chloe's dad. Instead of "feeling" the effects "directly" through the playable character, you're forced to take on a more supportive role. You may be a super-powered teenage girl, but at the end of the day, you're just trying to be there for your friend.
BTS- You get a much more intimate look at the way William's death affected a more vulnerable Chloe from a few years back, as the game is told from her point of view and before the events of LiS 1.
Captain Spirit- You explore how a child copes with the death of his mother through escapism.
LiS2- You follow a pair of siblings whose father was recently killed. They're left to fend for themselves and the game pushes their relationship to the absolute limit. How far would you *really* go for your brother?

Tell Me Why has the mystery elements of LiS 1 and the sibling bond theme of LiS 2. Other than the sloppily presented "who's the baby daddy" mystery and the weird conflicting memories mechanic (which seemed interesting at first but never really feels like it comes into play in any meaningful way), this game brings nothing new to the table. It also suffers from the same pacing problems as BTS. The whole experience just feels like a drive through the inner city. One moment you're stuck waiting around for something to happen and the next you're just speeding through everything.

Its main themes are the past and family. If you want something that's longer, better written (imo), and with more meaningful choices, play LiS 1 and 2 if you haven't already. Both of those games do those two themes better, respectively. So you have other options if you're looking for something similar. LiS 2 even has more provocative social themes, if that's what you're looking for in a game.

It's far from bad. It just falls short when you pit it against games of a similar genre. Play this if you're a big Dontnod fan or if you want to play a game with a believable trans protagonist. Or if you're just curious. It's on sale right now. First episode is free too. You might see something in it that I didn't. I ultimately would advise against getting it though.




im obligated to give 11/10 tho cuz the protags hav the same birthday as me so 11/10
 

Errant Boy
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 September, 2020
Admittedly, I'm only half-way through chapter 2 so may change my mind in a few days...but I wanted to post a review because I'm finding the pace incredibly slow. It feels like the characters regularly repeat conversations. You can rarely ever jog or run, even in outdoor areas. Some of the tasks the game gets you to do aren't challenging and are just there for the purpose of filling time. I strongly appreciate the story and themes the game explores, but feel it could have been executed better
 

Croomey
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 9 February, 2021
Slow, boring, uneventful. Nothing like other DONTNOD games. Their previous titles (Life is Strange specifically) make your decisions have consequences. This game just moves forward at a infuriatingly slow rate regardless to what you do. The only decisions are whether or not to do puzzles. They can just be skipped if you do not want to do them. Not a good sign when a puzzle solver game doesn't believe in its own puzzle. Feels phoned in, rushed, lacks creativity. Had this been the first DONTNOD game I had ever played I would have no interest in playing others. This is just a one off poor game. Save your money.
 

Twocansam
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 12 July, 2021
I usually like these style of games, but this was the most boring game I've tried all year... I'm sure the story picks up later on, but sadly there was no hook to be found.
 

Aiko
410 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2022
started the game thinking it would be preachy, and it was a little bit but by the end of the game I didn't mind, but overall the game is just kinda boring, the plot is mid and the twists are mid-er
 

Radapoon
0
14 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 August, 2023
Tell Me Why
A promising premise hindered by poor character development and narrative beats

Note: This game was played to completion on Microsoft PC Game Pass because in this day and age, one has many avenues to play PC games (Steam, Ubisoft Connect, EA Play, Epic Games and Microsoft PC Game Pass). Stop trying to invalidatre other peoples opinions because they don't match up your criteria. Get a life and move on!

Tell Me Why is the third full length narrative-driven adventure game from studio DontNod, that same studio that hit it big with their first venture into the genre - the wildly popular and successful Life is Strange - and while much of the studios weaknesses from that game have once again carried over into this title, Tell Me Why registers as their most disappointing release yet. While I applaud the studio for picking up current day issues such as being gay or racism, bigotry and what it feels like to be a migrant in modern day America which is tackled in the first two Life is Strange games, their heavy-handidness when it comes to topics like this can often leave players at arms length.

Nuanced writing continues to evade the studio and once again poor character development is back on the menu. Tell Me Why does seem to be the most egregious of the lot though where current hot button issues such as Transgenderism and Identity Politics are so ham-fisted into the plot that you can almost hear all the woke activists cheer in loud unison. Tell Me Why introduces us to a story of family secrets and sibling bonds, except there is nothing slightly believable when it comes to the "secret" lying at the heart of this family and the sibling bond feels totally forced and faked. Not for one second did I believe that twins Tyler and Alyson Ronan actually gave two farts about each other. Their entire relationship felt like an act specifically put on for me.

Storytelling:
Just weak on all fronts. The transgender movement deserves better than what is on display here. The central focus of Tell Me Why's narrative is about exploring complex themes, such as memory, identity, sexuality and the nature of truth, but none of it is compelling or believable in the slightest. Weak plot twists, writing and character development belie the complexities of the themes being covered, making for a mostly surface level and hollow experience. While this may be their shortest game to date (at 3 episodes), the pacing is so inconsistent, with some parts dragging while other sections rush the player through important plot points that left me incredibly unsatisfied. Also the game's central mystery hinges on a plot device that is so outlandish and unbelievable that I can scarcely believe it made it into the final game at all.

Gameplay:
The gameplay mechanics in Tell Me Why follow that of the past titles and are relatively simplistic, featuring point-and-click interactions and making dialogue choices. While the focus on narrative and character-driven gameplay is understandable (as weak as it is on display here), the lack of variety in gameplay elements can feel monotonous and repetitive. More interactive elements or meaningful consequences for choices would have enhanced the overall experience.

Characters and Dialogue:
Some of the game's weakest points fall into this category, especially concerning the twins, Alyson and Tyler, who are not believable as siblings in the slightest. Their emotional journeys and the complexities of their relationship is supposed to form the heart of the game but this heart is barely on life support it feels so contrived. The dialogue is also stilted and weakly composed, failing to add any depth to either twin's personalities. Supporting characters also feel underdeveloped, leading to less impactful interactions and further emotional investment in the story .

Graphics and Art Style:
Tell Me Why features some visually appealing environments and this is probably the games strongest suit although occasional technical hiccups detract from the overall visual experience.

Audio:
The game's soundtrack is okay (once again littered with some indie music tracks), the voice acting on the other hand is sub-par which contributes to the game feeling almost like a badly written school play being poorly performed by its two leads, which you as a parent are forced to endure. Nothing in these characters voices help bring any personality to the forefront.

Length and Value:
Tell Me Why's length is relatively short and thank the gods for that, with a format of only three episodes. This may leave some players wanting more substance for their investment but not this gamer. I was just glad to see it end as this story has no believability, warmth or emotional complexity leaving behind the sour taste of disappointment.

In conclusion, Tell Me Why is a poor effort on all fronts. It fails to deliver anything compelling with shallow characters and under-developed plot twists further hindered by terrible writing. It fails to give any kind of weight to the serious themes it tackles, addressing them like one would address a store mannequin and it fails to deliver on gameplay, where there is little variety. This one is just best avoided to be honest.

One word or phrase to sum up the experience
Poor effort from a studio that continues to show diminishing returns from its games

Performance/Bug related incidents
None were experienced during my playtime with the game

Similar to games
Life is Strange, The Walking Dead - A Telltale episodic adventure, Detroit: Become Human

Rating: ★★★☆☆☆☆☆☆☆

Not recommended 
Community Created Artwork for Steam Artwork
By: The Dogfather
Not Recommended games are games I would have normally scored within a range of 3/10 - 4/10.
 

The Dogfather
5,365 products in account
5
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 September, 2022
Eh. It was not great.
 

Dr. Sam Beckett
106 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 5 December, 2021
it more a film and you choose the path it takes . i got bored and uninstalled it , if you want to just chill then its worth getting it,
 

Magrat
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 21 March, 2022
The first episode sets up the game as a murder plot with two traumatized twins.
But there isn't any real choices by the end of episode three.
So it's not a "choose your own adventure game".
Waste of money!
 

Chillibreath
2,865 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2024
quite boring...it was free.
 

ShibbJ
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.4 hrs on record
Posted: 29 September, 2020
I love all Dontnod's games that I played like Life Is Strange or Vampyr, but not this one.

To be more clear: Tell Me Why is a game with good and strong moments and it looks beautiful: character models, environments, music etc...
But my overall impression is more negative than positive. The story isn't great, the gameplay is boring and, without give spoilers, I feel like there was a wasted potential about the twins representation.

Anyway I don't regret playing this game, but I could have done without it.
 

Rangotàm
281 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
14.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2024
3/5 stars
...but maybe worth playing for free?

As someone who wants to see more games that tell trans people's stories, it's tough for me to give this a thumbs-down, but in the end, for me, it's a middling game that may or may not be worth your time.

I love the art and the setting, and the characters were likeable, but the acting was stiff at times, and the story plodded along. I was really into the idea of spending some time as a troubled character with a mentally-ill family in a small town in Alaska, but for some reason it just didn't scratch that itch. It took me about a year of random play-sessions to beat this (and Steam says I played for only 15 hours...)

The music was great.

There were times when the game would soft-lock as I was trying to look at something. I think the character couldn't get into the position they were supposed to be in to start the animation. And because the game doesn't let you save, sometimes I had to repeat minutes of content which is really annoying in a narrative game.

Just... meh all around. But if it's free? I dunno, pick it up and it might hit differently for you.
 

a black cat
0
9 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
14.1 hrs on record
Posted: 18 June, 2022
Is this psychological torture thing banned in only 13 countries? Jesus! It should've been banned here as well so my chances of stumbling onto it would've been decreased.

I got the idea... to make it free during pride month and try to bring visibility to transgender individuals... But what kind of visibility? Let's be honest, it just backfires when the character is unbearably shallow and inevitably boring. "Is it about ME?" he asked again, and then again and again. Weren't they capable of creating an even more self-centered character than that poor trans snowflake?! Tyler keeps drowning himself in himself and tries to push other characters to the same well, as if in a frustrated attempt of showing others that his feelings are the most mattered thing there, not to say the only.

The game doesn't focus on any lore, turning it into a tiresome experience from all this going back-and-forth between unfinished stories. It's unsettling. It's unsettling because it's one-sided, Tyler-sided and he doesn't know what he wants. "I want to know the truth!" What truth, young man?! That your dad went out to buy a pack of cigarettes and never came back? They got me laughing with such predictable daddy issues. But again, there's no clear focus on anything. Should it be a grief story? Parental abuse story? Some sort of fantastic imagination story with all those childhood flashbacks? We don't know and, in the end, it was a complete waste of time.

Is it what being transgender is all about? Having your whole personality based on how you look and feel? Not having any other big dream besides selling your dead mom's house to pay for your sex reassignment surgery? That's ridiculous. From the very beginning seems like your choices won't matter, and so it was. Seeking for answers but not being compromised with further changes is pointless but Tyler can't see that, he's somehow blind (by, guess what? His pride!) and keeps dragging others into this vain search journey.

Also, seems like the game’s slow pace was on purpose. Besides making it dull, gives you the perfect time to savor the sickness and angriness the characters evoke from you. I felt nauseated a couple of times and enraged for many others. I couldn't recommend it at all. This could've been a way more interesting experience if the story had taken place in The Virtue Seekers Youth Camp. :)
 

dat
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
17.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2024
Boring. And fantasy stuff not needed at all.
 

andr
68 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2021
so boring
 

RadiatedDean
252 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 25 July, 2022
Product received for free

This game is a mess. before I go in depth and spoil the story, if your even thinking of playing this, just don't. you are much better off watching a youtuber play this
(if there even is one out there that has played this game) than sitting through the HOURS of gameplay. at least that way you can skip pointless gameplay and nonsense and
just have a good time listening to the story.

i'll start with the few (and I mean VERY few) things I actually did enjoy about this game.
firstly I think that the team did a very good job with the visuals, a lot of the backgrounds are stunning especially the mountains and other scenic views you get
in this game. The art style used for the children's book illustrations in this game are also really lovely, especially the secret loft you find nearing the end of the game.
Another thing i have to give credit to the developers on is the book of goblins, i thought it was a really neat part of the game and actually ended up reading through the
entire thing. You can tell a lot of time went into the illustrations and stories and making sure they lined up with the greater story the game was trying to tell.The puzzles
that match up with these stories are one of my favourite parts of this game as well, i thought they were really neat and would have definitely loved to see more of them. I also
do think that this game had some really emotionally compelling moments that are definitely worth seeing and Aside from all the issues i have with this game I do truly think they
had a good story to tell here, just too many problems that got in the way of making it the great game it could have been.

Those are, However, the ONLY positive things I can truly say about this lacklustre game. My first major issue with this game has to be the dialogue. So many
times while playing this game I found myself having to pause and take a moment to CRINGE from some of the absolutely TERRIBLE dialogue. Cute moments between siblings
reminiscing were fine but my problem was more with the language used in some areas, like how during a conversation between Tyler and Michael Tyler actually uses the
phrase "oh my god shut up!!" like ♥♥♥♥♥♥ teen girls do in teen Disney films like high school musical.This isn't the only issue with the voice acting for this game either,
the voice actor for Tyler gives such a poor performance it hardly seems like he feels anything at all most times unless he is angry in which he will be yelling. He's always
so monotone and delivers lines really terribly, this plays into the cringe factor of some scenes as witty banter becomes a horribly awkward moment of the player having to
stop and go "♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ why would you say that" because Tyler's line was not delivered correctly. The game also has really terrible timing with its dialogue, so many times
did I assume a conversation was over because the characters have such a large pause between their lines. Tyler would say something to Ashley and it would take almost a whole
minute to go by before she would say her answer. Aside from Tyler though i did think that a lot of the other voice actors did a phenomenal job, Tessa had a really convincing
moment when she falls to the ground and begins crying for example. My second issue with this game is how terribly unlikable they make the main character Tyler, through the
game i had my issues with Ashley but she really stepped up near the end, accepting blame and realising some issues with herself that she needs to fix, this character
development is something we do NOT see in Tyler. Meanwhile Tyler is a self centred,self righteous, ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ who thinks he is better than everyone around him.Tyler gets
progressively worse as the game goes on, making choices and decisions that hurt everyone around him in a sick game to make sure him being trans inst the reason for his mother
trying to kill him. Tyler shows time and time again to have zero regard for the feelings of others,literally sending his sister into a spiral where she begins hallucinating
and having panic attacks. Any of the choices you are able to make for Tyler all feel wrong and you find yourself sitting back and just yelling at Tyler alot, I found myself
getting so annoyed with him that anytime he spoke in the background scene where I was playing as Ashley I would yell at my screen telling Tyler to shut up. Hes so arrogant and
self centred,even when his sister was breaking down in front of him, crying and begging to stop digging into that terrible night Tyler KEEPS pushing her! Having one of your
main Protagonists who you are SUPPOSED TO LIKE be so terrible and just unlikable does not make for a good game at all. It made me really disconnect from him as a character
because you just can't relate with someone who is such a blatant ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. There's no change in him by the end either to show growth, maybe the only part we see this is where
you as the player can choose to accept the police officers apology and hope the family bond will get better with time but it just feels sour because of how blatantly
ignorant Tyler has been to him this ENTIRE game, it feels fake and disingenuous how fast it switches up. I feel like this is the major reason I felt like the game just kept
going on and on and on, I didn't like one of the main characters so I didn't care about his relationships or dialogues, this made the game feel longer than it should have.
I'm not event the only person I know to feel this way, my boyfriend said the same thing and its the reason he couldn't bring himself to finish the game. Some of the visuals for
this game also aren't the best. On a regular basis characters facial expressions just did not match with what their voice or lines were implying, clothes clipping in and out,
and mouth movements not syncing up with what the character was saying.

I think the game had a very good concept and a very interesting story but it was simply executed poorly, with an unlikable main character, bad voice acting, and all in a game
that felt simply far too long it just was not a game worth anyone's time. Had this game not have been free i would NEVER have played this.
 

Neon1210
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 24 January, 2023
DONTNOD Entertainment have made it clear they’re done with the Life is Strange (LiS) series (which is a shame considering the limp offering Deck Nine made of Life is Strange: True Colors), but Tell Me Why is DONTNOD’s second breakaway interactive drama game that functionally acts a continuation of the LiS series without the branding. In it, we follow estranged twins, Tyler and Alyson, as they reconnect and delve into their childhood history to better understand the events that led to their separation.

Like the LiS series, Tell Me Why delivers the gameplay we’ve come to expect from DONTNOD: a people-centric story filled with more twists and turns than I’ve seen in their other entries; a charming world; mindfulness style experiential moments mixed with simple puzzles or activities; conflict-based conversations with choices to be made affecting the plot outcome. Particular praise is deserved for the inclusivity shown in the world. As a non-American without good awareness of Native American issues then I’m not best placed to comment on the indigenous peoples’ representation, but, as a gay man (who arguably also isn’t best placed to comment on transgender issues), I immediately identified with many of the interactions Tyler, a trans man, has with the town residents. There is a particular conversation with self-professed deadbeat, Sam, where he’s attempting to apologise for wrong-footing himself with Tyler earlier, and a lot of the body language and ham-handed wording is very representative of the conversations I myself have had in similar situations. Tyler does this hilariously awkward glance at one point that I know all too well, the “I get what you’re doing, but it’s honestly chill and I’d rather we just dropped it” look. And these moments of non-verbal expression are well-executed throughout the game.

Tell Me Why does a lot with a little. It’s only three chapters (compared to the usual five), utilising only a handful of environments and a similarly small cast. You go back over old environments a few times, but it never feels repetitive (something LiS: True Colors failed to do with the same idea) because it always serves something a little different. In spite of its length, the story delivers a competent mystery, and the cast is capably presented and developed, though it would’ve been nice if they’d had even more time to unfurl. I particularly enjoyed the way the twins’ attitudes to their past evolved the more they learned: Tyler moves from hatred to fascination, while Alyson goes from curious to fearful. I played LiS: True Colors not long before Tell Me Why and, for two games designing to the same length of story, Tell Me Why definitely pulls it off better.

However, despite serving a solid (though not exceptional) experience, Tell Me Why fell a bit flat for me. It’s hard to pin down exactly what made it a struggle, but my guess is the lack of driving force in the story made finding motivation to keep playing hard to come by after a break. Life is Strange 1 had the sinister threat at school, and Life is Strange 2 had the looming struggle for survival, but there’s really nothing compelling you to push Tell Me Why’s twins to continue their investigation. They could pack up their search at any point and nothing bad’ll happen other than they’ll have to make peace with not knowing more about their past (which both seem basically fine with at the beginning anyway). Furthermore, they could hypothetically come back to their research at a later point if they really wanted to. The only time sensitive element are the cast’s memories, but, given that it’s already been a decade, the key players all still seem to remember the events like they were yesterday. Consequently, I couldn’t find anything pushing me to keep going with the story. The game’s icon sat on my desktop and I kept looking past it in favour of literally anything else each time I sat down to game. And it wasn’t for lack of enjoyment, I just didn’t feel anything calling me back after a break.

Overall, Tell Me Why's a hard one to come down hard on either side of the fence. You’re probably better off just playing Life is Strange 1 or 2 over this, but if you’ve played both of those and want some more then Tell Me Why offers a short, moody trip. It never reaches the heights of its predecessors, but it’s got some nice stuff kicking about in it if you can motivate yourself in the moments where the game can’t do so itself. I don’t regret playing Tell Me Why, or even really dislike it – in fact, by the story’s crescendo in the third act, I was definitely into it – but you'll have to push to get there.
 

The Sacred Voice
650 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 19 July, 2021
Product received for free

The gameplay was boring, but I kept pushing myself thinking this game would have an interesting story/ending. It didn't.
 

KALU
98 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 26 March, 2021
I'm a sucker for games with story focus and do not require much action or gameplay, but since this game contains neither gameplay nor any semlance of an interesting story I almost fell asleep after the totally meaningless first half hour.

They should change the company name to DontNodOff since that's the challenge when playing most of their crap.
 

ThDubya
0
7 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
8.1 hrs on record
Posted: 21 August, 2021
I'm glad that there is more LGBTQ+ rep in video games. That being said, I wish the two characters you play as in the game were actually good people and not complete scoundrels. Both of them have aggressive victim complexes and lash out at everyone around them. Tyler especially in the 1st chapter was self-centered and hostile towards most of the characters he hasn't met for 10 years for no good reason (later on these people would later be givin' horrible wrongs they've done to Tyler but at that point only felt like a cheap validation tactic for Tyler's aggression) Alyson in the second chapter also became quite unreasonable towards Tyler and honestly that felt out of character from the 1st chapter. Again, very happy that the trans aspect of Tyler's character was quite good and not a huge factor of his character portrayal. But he and his sister are horrible people that don't get any karmatic retribution while another certain glasses wearing character gets laser guided karma off-handedly. Overall the game is a very shallow soap opera, good enough for normalizing transexual representation, but utterly inadequate in character motivation, buildup and payoff.

P.S. Also it was really uncomfortable for me when Michael gets pushed as your love interest for 3 chapters even though you shot him down way earlier. It made me feel like he was a ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ creep, which I'm pretty wasn't their intention.
 

Ganolink
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 23 September, 2022
The story telling is pretty slow, the graphics is meh, Tyler has a horrible way of expressing himself or he's just really bad at it. They're like the type of person of people dislike since they're so edgy and not friendly. They weren't friendly with Alyson at the start, even though its been 10 years since they last saw each other. Tyler was like "ugh, this girl, she's so awkward." The dude doesnt even act happy nor friendly to Alyson, like jesus. Interacting with books, posters, and notes was so slowww, you can to inspect each small thing one by one, zooming it and out of them. Tyler speaks so softly like bonnie from family guy, its annoying. The story seems interesting though I dont want to waste 10 hours because the actions are so slow. It's not even that interesting, no hook for the audience in the beginning of the story than being a twink. If you enjoy a game with slow story telling to bond with boring characters, this would be it.
 

(DJ) Mr. GigaChad #meowmeow
185 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 22 July, 2021
Product received for free

Graphics and environment look beautiful. However, these kind of games are story oriented and unlike Life is Strange, the story of this one doesn't really get me.
 

S!lv3er
239 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 15 August, 2021
Product received for free

A really bad story and not really fun or enjoyable the characters are also kinda bland and lack personalty i am not gonna bash it to hard sense i got it for free but 2/5 stars
 

Bone Shiv
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 November, 2020
The most boring DONTNOD game in my opinion.
 

Talshank
0
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2022
Product received for free

steaming hot garbage and a lesson on how not to make video games
 

neek
1
16 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 May, 2021
A boring game where not much happens, apart from a few interesting moments. Dontnode hasn't managed to repeat the feat since the first Life is Strange.
 

Droidec
384 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.1 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2021
Disclaimer: I have only completed act one so far, and I got the game for free.

Positive: The game tackles difficult topics and does so in a tasteful way, without using too many cliches. Controls are intuitive, graphics are actually a bit better than the past games, imo. And that's about it.

Negative: It's boring. It feels like trying to stretch a story that could be told in five minutes to fill several hours. The characters are bland, the plotlines predictable and scenes that should shock me just... don't. Probably because I have absolutely no connection to these characters that do not seem to have any personality, or emotions. I mean,  should invoke _some_ kind of reactions. The other problem is, that interactions sometimes just don't make sense. It is actually kinda comical, just how badly some interactions fit together. For example . It's more of a good laugh, than an actual, deep, story based game.

Got it for free, so I might even finish it, maybe I'll get a couple more laughs out of this absurdity, but I would never spend mony on this.
 

sebi.
188 products in account
0
50 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
4.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 August, 2020
mediocre at best.

i rarely write reviews but i had to for this one. i borderline hate this game. i cant play it more than 30 mins at a time, when with life is strange i couldnt put it down.

dialogue is boring, characters are boring, story is okay (so far) just slow, gameplay is nothing special- even tedious at times. rather than being an interesting game with progressive elements, this is more pc for the sake of being pc.

like someone else said, some teenager could've written this for a school project. at least wait til this is 5$ or something, but if the next episodes offer the same id say keep your money entirely
 

Clammybo
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 October, 2021
I'm interested in the story but the gameplay is just soooo boring, It's great that Tyler is trans but I also kinda wish they wasn't so on the nose about it. Like I realised Tyler was trans by the first flashback alone, no need to keep reminding the player as it feels insulting to our intelligence.

I'll be checking out the rest of the story on youtube but I cannot recommend this game even though i'm pretty sure i've figured out the obvious twist, I would recommend if the gameplay didn't take so long to do simple tasks sadly that is not the case.
And as much as I don't use this word often it's really cringy, kinda makes the devs look out of touch.
No wonder they gave the whole game away for free.

 

aGoryLouie
551 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
I hate this game.

Not because of the political message behind the game, but because every time i see it in my steam library I get that DAMN SONG STUCK IN MY HEAD
 

Ms. Lazarus
332 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 28 September, 2021
Tyler is annoying.
 

YiShaqFu
74 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 July, 2021
I usually love these kind of games. Telltale games, Detroit, Until Dawn, Man of Medan... this game however just didn't do it for me. I found it really boring from the start. I wish it was different, but sadly I had to request a refund.
 

Sumnox
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
21.8 hrs on record
Posted: 18 June, 2023
Product received for free

While the story can be captivating at times, the game feels like a talking simulation. There are zero interesting gameplay mechanics and the story itself is not strong enough to carry the rest. The point of the plot is basic and makes the rest of the game quite uninteresting (once you get the point, that is).
 

rinat64
58 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 21 July, 2021
Uninstalled after playing for about an hour. Dialogue was very poorly written, most cut scenes are predictable and characters have very shallow depths to them. Overall a very cliche game that tries too hard
 

Dominique de Villepin
191 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March, 2021
bad game.
 

H a M
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.6 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2023
Why the ♥♥♥♥ was Walter White my dad, and why does the player base hate him?
 

Leon
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2024
Not for me.
 

Woofeliwow
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Im sorry but this game is absolutely drawn out and boring. Good story? yes. Presented in a good way? Absolutely not. I can not play this game for another hour because of how the klunky gameplay works.

I guess I should explain better. Tell Me Why has a good story, and the characters are interesting, it is just the way the game is presented and how it plays out. It is almost like if telltale tried to mix its formula with batman origins mechanics, they just do not work out. Also, the game gives no context on how they're "connected" it is just there. Such a good story with poor execution...
 

serodose
138 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.5 hrs on record
Posted: 21 July, 2023
After giving Tell Me Why a go, I must unfortunately say that the game lacks the atmosphere and that sort of a "magical" setting of the previous DON'T NOD games that I felt in love with. Due to that, whatever activities were fun in the Life is Strange games are now just tedious and uninteresting, for lack of a better word.

I'm talking about glancing at photos, talking to people, reading through leaflets, personal notes and the news, or just listening to the main character's inner dialogue when browsing stuff. There's very little that Tell Me Why offers besides that. The gameplay feels sluggish, the romantic encounter comes off as a bit forced and unnecessary, and the cutscenes are unskippable for some reason.

All things considered, I'm of the opinion that the game would've been better off as a short film.
 

Solfernia
167 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2024
🎵 Ain't nothin' but a mistake.
Tell Me Why
I never wanna hear Don't Nod say
This is Life is Strange 2🎵

---

As a Cis person, the trans experience is a little lost on me. And the family drama SPOILERS here () is a bit flat, given it's only in the third episode that things start to be revealed in full. But it's not a terrible game. The fact that Microsoft and Don't Nod give it out for free during Pride month for the past ... 3-4 years is nice. For free, it's worth going through and getting Steam and X-box Live (if you link your XBL account) achievements for like a day (12 hours max) adventure game. But any other month when they charge? Nah. BUT: That is a soft "nah." It's not terrible, but it's not great either. I would say... "average?" "Mediocre?" "Serviceable?"

I did like that when the (real spoilers)  plot was introduced everything about how the mother was so protective made sense. But taking like 10 hours to get to that point and not having "Mary-Ann"/the mother feature in more (making it seem like she was more abusive than anything) didn't do much for me.

I think a chapter from her perspective would've probably stuck the landing a bit, but... eh.
 

Sekoku
0
15 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 November, 2020
I had really high hopes for this game. I loved Life is Strange, Life is Strange: Before the Storm, and though i had some rough patches, I liked Life is Strange 2. I was really hoping to continue the pattern. However, Tell Me Why is simply pandering. They throw in a trans character whose only personality trait is correcting people on his identity. His sister's only personality trait? You guessed it, correcting people on her brother's identity. Half the game is confronting "bigots". The other half of the game is uncovering the mystery of what exactly happened on the night of the death of their mother. There were many incorporated story elements, which was really nice. To be honest, the puzzles were the only thing that kept me playing the game. But the truth of the mystery is plain as day, and anyone can guess the truth after discovering the first clue. This wasn't me being "super smart" or anything, the mystery was just that easy. That made the ending incredibly disappointing, as I had been hoping for a surprise twist to make the whole game worth the time I put into it. I was wrong.
To sum up, don't buy it. Most parts will leave you feeling angry or offended, and the rest is just boring. I had such high hopes for a game coming from DONTNOD.
 

RayBayKa
4
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.6 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2021
Jesus Christ, what a slog of a game. This game felt like it would never end, the pacing is so bad. The only positive thing about this game is the setting and who made the backgrounds. Avoid this game, one of the most uninspired ""story"" games ever.
 

Chobi
360 products in account
1
8 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
13.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 October, 2023
If Life Is Strange, Gone Home, and The Sims had a miscarriage together, it would be this game.

(some mid-game spoilers ahead--required to support my points)

I like narrative games. I really liked Gone Home's exploration and unfolding story line. I loved Life Is Strange, it being one of my favorite games of all time. Such a picture-perfect (pun intended) combination of soundtrack, story, game mechanics, and use of time-travelling. It combined character development with an interesting plot to evoke powerful emotions in the player. Other than Max occasionally being overly campy with her internal monologue around every single classmate in the entire game (e.g., "This person likes _____. How interesting!"), it was a wonderful teenage-angst kind of thing that is almost a callback to the 80s teenage movies it often alludes to.

I played this game knowing it was going to have a lot of politics embedded in it (and it did, with the characters moaning about this or that political or activist cause every 20 minutes), but what I didn't see coming at all was the stereotypical self-centered Gen Z worldview on full display. The two main characters are objectively, legitimately...complete ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. And yet they're supposed to be the protagonists. Everyone around them is super nice and polite...they're apologizing for merely making any little mistake every 5 minutes while the main two characters act better than everyone else and condescend to, make snide comments toward, or blame other people for everything. One character mentions seeing a type of person on TV, and they reply as if he was describing the main character--and then he apologizes later for it! But he didn't say anything wrong--he was referring to the person on TV, not the main character. This goes on over and over, from when a lady basically gave charity for months and months to their mother and then finally cut her off after she--and the main characters--started stealing from her...to when you literally find out later that they lied to the police (and more). They have crappy attitudes toward everyone for the most minor of offenses, and they are completely self-absorbed and self-centered, not caring about anyone else at all.

It just went on and on. They snidely insult Sam's desire to help someone in need as "antiquated"--of course, he genuinely cared for their mother and them, and they treat him like complete ♥♥♥♥ the entire time. These are despicable human beings. It got so bad that every time you had a binary dialog option--like many role-playing games--I would stare at the two options and think, "What do I say? The good thing that I would say, or do I role-play and say the crappy thing that these two characters would actually say?" Occasionally in these games there are bad characters where I hope that they have negative consequences (that I can make happen), but these two were so bad that I felt obligated to actually offset their terrible behavior by selecting kind, positive options in the style I usually play. So I ended up waffling a lot, sometimes selecting the jerk options because these were not good people and I either wanted to play as them or to have negative consequences for them...and then sometimes selecting the good option because I could actually stop their horrible behavior for once.

The worst part of this is the number of times they got mad at people for not committing crimes. For example, Tessa (who, like Sam, ended up apologizing despite doing nothing wrong) called CPS on the mother because she was broke and couldn't feed her kids. That's the responsible thing to do. Instead, they of course hate her for it and hate Eddy for following through with it (he has to--he's a police officer). So they want others to commit crimes for them in addition to them being criminals who lied to the police, broke into the police archives, stole from a store, and--oh yeah--killed a person.

And, to quote the great Norm Macdonald, the worst part was the hypocrisy. The main characters have a clear sociopolitical worldview, and so I can safely assume that they would insist that you call people by their preferred name. Yet they never once call their mother "Mom"--always "Mary-Ann". While there's a one-in-a-million chance she allowed them do that, it's more likely that they did that to distance themselves from her and what they did. Still, these two would likely go on a long lecture about respecting someone's preferred name and yet couldn't even call their own mother by what was likely her preferred name.

The only thing I can think of to rationalize this is that possibly this was brilliant writing regarding how off-the-deep-end the next generation is getting about thinking the world revolves around them and everyone being beneath them for not behaving in the exact way that they think they should (every interaction between the main characters and anyone else reminded me of the Twilight Zone episode, The Good Life, where everyone had to act exactly how the kid wanted or he'd wish them out into the corn field). Alyson gets offended at Sam calling her "princess" when that's literally the word the mother used for herself throughout the entire game. These characters had their heads so far up their rectal cavities that I'm one of the 0% out of 100% that went with Tom's view of events at the end because I assumed that they were probably being biased and stupid like they were the whole game.

There were some great moments that saved this from being a total slog, like the amazing finale where you complete puzzles and learn about the mother's history. That was amazing, and I liked the mother because she was a real, 3-dimensional character that you could empathize with. She was far from a perfect person, but she had more redeeming qualities and character in a few flashbacks and puzzles than the two main characters had the whole game. The graphics were great and the scenes were beautiful. But between the main characters being insufferable and the game being excruciatingly slow (at one point, you watch a pillow in slow motion for a full 10 seconds), I couldn't recommend anyone sit through it to get to those few beautiful moments. I mentioned "The Sims" at the beginning of this review because literally all you do is the most monotonous stuff like get the house ready to move and do inventory at the store. How did they think that these activities would make for a good game? No idea. There are also a lot of mistakes in the game, such as the use of the metric system where the imperial one would've been used and the people wearing clothing outside that was way too light given the snow everywhere (they repeatedly say it's freezing outside, but one of the characters never wears a hat or a winter coat).

I was hoping to be proven wrong about this game and thought that short reviews saying that the main characters were unlikable were overblown, but they were underblown. In the same vein that the characters kept wishing for terrible things like their house burning down and such, I had wished this was like Life Is Strange meets The Butterfly Effect and you could go back and stop these two characters from being born because all but one of the other nice, good, responsible characters deserved to have nice lives free from these jerks who hate, insult, and look down on them the whole time. Eddy did the right thing (as a police officer). Sam did the right thing (being a helpful, caring person). Tessa did the right thing (in being charitable until she was stolen from). The fact that the creators of this game thought that self-centered, self-righteous characters would make for good protagonists--and that this got so many good reviews (possibly by people with similar attitudes)--concerns me for the future of humankind if this is how the majority of society will act one day and see no ethical problems with it.
 

Son of a Lich
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
France was a mistake.
 

SoToSpeak
1
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2023
snorefest 2023
 

Kasane Teto
122 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2024
It sucked.... I tried, but it sucked too much... that is an hour and a half of my life wasted.
I will now delete the game and try to forget what I just put myself through...
 

RenaGrace
26 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
16.3 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2022
I like the lgbtq+ representation, and it was cool that the game was completely free in June. However, the characters felt very flat. Without getting into specifics for those who haven't played the game, the puzzles are cool and fun to solve, but the actual story has a ton of leaps in logic that are very strange. The siblings come to conclusions using evidence that isn't really there. When you do have evidence or bits of memory, it's usually underwhelming and doesn't really add a whole lot to the story. The fairy-tale story aspect is a very cool idea, but it could be better executed. The powers of the siblings seems like it was put in the game just to give it a Life-is-Strange-element to it. The actual power doesn't really add a whole lot, except that you can visually see memories of the siblings. However, like I said before, the memories do not really add much to the evidence of the story, the development of the characters, or the progression of the events. They seem like they are very much just placed in there to make the game longer. The other characters that the siblings interact with are interesting, and I like how they correlate to the storybook aspect of the game. However, even they seem a little flat and very unrealistic in how they react at certain points of the game.

Visually, the graphics are really well done, and I like the character designs and the style of everything. It feels a lot like Life is Strange in that way. However, the characters feel a little surreal in their movements, sometimes they move very life-like and other times they only move their mouths when speaking. This can be very unnerving when talking to NPCs. Especially in the cut scenes where you can move the camera, the characters seem very puppeted. Some of the scenes in which the siblings are walking and talking together are pretty, but it feels like all the attention is on the landscape of the game (which is beautiful, don't get me wrong) and not on the story or the individual movements of the characters. The conversations with some of the other characters are interesting (I like Micheal and his interactions with Tyler lol) but a lot of them seem pointless, like they are just there to add filler. Not a lot of the actual choices in the game seem to matter, and even they are few and far in between.

Overall, I think it's a cool concept, and I think it could be a cool game, but it's trying to be Life is Strange and not really focusing on what it does have going for it (the fairytale story aspect and the different characters). If the whole game wasn't a big mystery that isn't all that huge then I think it could be really good.

I don't know if I recommend this game. I think it's worth it for the bit of representation and the beautiful graphics, not so much for the actual story or the choices-aspect. 6/10
 

TheCheyIsALie
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Bad acting, bad story, ropey graphics and bad animation, unlikable main character.
 

Sumahdi
94 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
The characters are insufferable and unlikeable. Wouldn't recommend.
 

Nik.Nax
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.9 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2021
not interesting story, boring
 

Boulou
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2024
Sooooo slow. The whole time I was thinking 'Does it matter? Do you really need to go through all this?'

I finished Chapter one only which finally had a twist at the end that made it interesting but I didn't want to play any further. A lot of unnecessary dialogue and lore that wasn't interesting.
 

meowpow666
142 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 July, 2023
The plot is blatantly obvious from the start for anyone who's played a game before with a twist.
The protagonists are unlikable to the point you don't want to hear their story.

The gameplay, sound and graphics are OK but the main part of this game is the story. You play it for the story which I'm afraid isn't there.
 

Lightning477
772 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.9 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2020
While I love that this game is inclusive, the social messages seemed to take priority over writing a cohesive story and making gameplay engaging. The choices seem arbitrary, there isn't much gameplay to speak of and character development is minimal. This game feels like a significant downgrade from Dontnod's excellent Life is Strange series
 

tomacc95
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2022
Flat interactions, dialogue, characters, and story. It's Life is Strange without the charm but the bad dialogue is cranked up to 11 and the story is even more eye roll inducing.

Edit: Beat the game. Nothing to add lol. Remained poorly written throughout. If I was trying to be constructive, I'd suggest that the two main characters should have been portrayed in a more sympathetic light. The game addresses the fact that they behave like inconsiderate jerks, ripping open old wounds with reckless abandon, but it hardly alters the audience's perception of them.
 

Polar
414 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 18 July, 2021
Product received for free

A very boring movie with the usual "be the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥" / "be nice" choices along the way. There are random awkward pauses which break the immersion, inserted between awkward dialogue. The main dude has a very uncanny face to look at. It's like they were trying to both highlight the fact that he's trans _and_ mention it casually in passing, both with his appearance and the related dialogue. The scenery is very nice, gotta give them that; unfortunately it lags like hell at random.
 

poharani
888 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 2 January, 2024
No. Just no. I didn't realise that the game would be horrible looking, the animation is bad in some places and when you are in the bathroom in the mirror, you move the camera and the model is just goofy. I don't want to finish the game, I am just going to refund it. The story, I don't care about. I got to a shady part with a memory and immediately knew that it would be horrific. I became bored.
 

CrimsonRose18
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 11 April, 2021
Really falls short, coming from LiS 1&2.
DONTNOD have done some really good work with the engine, giving the game a realistic, but still stylized look.

The story is extremely slow paced, even for a storytelling game. I went into it knowing each chapter is anywhere from 3-5 hours long, and after 2 hours that only discouraged me further.

Yes, I think it's admirable that they're trying to educate people about the challenges of being transgender. No, I don't think treating the player and other characters within the story as ignorant troglodytes, aggressively and condescendingly is the right way to do it. Calling a man "Antiquated" for trying to lend a hand to a single mother with twins?
If he had just turned a blind eye to her struggles, then they would've complained about that, too. Make up your minds. $50 that at least one of your screenwriters has neon pink hair.

You've introduced a lot of other controversial topics into your games. We already expect it. They add flavor, stakes, and emotional investment to them. This, however, is an actual detriment to the story you're trying to tell.

I'm still looking forward to LiS 3. Tell your story. I felt infuriated on Sean and Daniel's behalf on 2 when they'd get discriminated. That's the feeling you want to achieve. Frustration after the 500th time something about the LGTVOLED+ community is mentioned? That's a no-no. You're not educating and spreading love. You're teaching more people to hate.

To end this in a positive note, the character models and general layout of the scenes was great. It made me want to keep playing, if only to keep sightseeing for a little longer.
 

Phaaze
185 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
16.1 hrs on record
Posted: 19 October, 2020
The game isn't bad, it is just way too forced. From the weird brief romantic interjections all the way to the suicide/homicide discrepancy. It feels like certain elements have just been put in or brushed over without them building up to eachother or correlating well with eachother.



Unlike an logical comprehensive storyline that fits together well and keeps you immersed and empathatic towards the protagonist like in LiS or LiS:BTS the story gets divided by puzzles. Puzzles from their childhood stories. Solving these puzzles and understanding the storyline better requires a lot of reading. Turning the puzzles into the most tedious job ever. Even the main characters start to complain about it. Maybe it isn't as much the reading itself as it is the fictional stories that are boring beyond belief. If you don't like reading during gameplay don't buy and don't try.

I think it stands without reason that having two main characters actually doesn't benefit immersion or the ability to empathize with them, their different recollections don't help with that either. Giving you the feeling that there is no progression and no truth to be discovered through memory. How can you empathize with someone when you don't know if what they experienced was what they actually experienced. The music is okay but it doesn't match up to any of the LiS series. Unfortunately I can't recommend this.
 

Holy Bear
320 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.9 hrs on record
Posted: 3 January, 2021
This was an OK game I purchased on sale for 14$, and I suppose it was an alright price to pay. I played through it, I enjoyed it, but I wouldn't recommend it.

I've played quite a few cinematic novel type games and *INSERT PRONOUN* oh *INSERT SAME PRONOUN* do I enjoy those. But this game felt lacking some of the options other games give you. I'm sure they could have squeezed in a female romance option as well, in one way or another, as the only option felt slightly forced in my opinion.

The game had some really great mysterious moments in the first two chapters that really kept me going. However, it turned out to be just an 'enhanced' family drama and nothing else. This game is somewhat advertised toward, I suppose you could say, gender-fluid characters? But this doesn't really add anything to the story (not the game mechanic, but the actual story line) aside from a few dialogue options. I don't see it as being relevant in the story or being too much of a pivotal story point, but rather just a way for DONTNOD to appear more appealing and relevant toward the forever changing 'societal new normal'.

If you're after a good cinematic novel type of a game, in my own personal opinion I would suggest to go for something else instead (The Walking Dead series from Telltale, or Life is Strange from DONTNOD).
 

Hex
195 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 10 November, 2024
I really wanted to like this game, but it missed the mark for me. The beginning was extremely slow, with little happening to grab my attention. I kept waiting for something interesting to kick in, but after nearly an hour, I found myself more tired than intrigued. The pacing was sluggish, and nothing about the story or gameplay really motivated me to keep going.

I still don’t have a clear idea of what the game was even about, and honestly, I didn’t feel compelled to stick around and figure it out. Ultimately, I closed it out after about 50 minutes and haven’t felt the urge to give it another try.

Not a game I’d recommend, unfortunately.
 

Patootie
137 products in account
0
15 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
14.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2024
Product received for free

I received this game for free, and I will say... IT WAS NOT FUN.

At first I kinda into the story of ollie murdering mary ann. 

But then, when you really go into the story. That ♥♥♥♥ doesn't make any sense

This force narrative of tyler keep telling us doesn't make any sense. 

Even worse, the representation of the LGBTQIA+ is so forced.... They only talk about teaching others, transitioning & etc.

It could be a better game if saw more of the LGBTQIA+ difficulties and such.

And also, alyson is the best girl, I feel bad for EVERY ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ TIME trying to understand tyler reasons. 

As a 100% player, play this if you want nothing but npc talk, if not, then go play any other good LGBTQIA+ games that doesn't have forced representation.

OBS: The cutscene skip sucks because you have to press E all the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ time...
 

StarRevva
60 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2024
Visuals are stunning but it feels more like I was watching something on netflix main characters weren't interesting and the dialogue wasn't really fun or engaging - cut scenes long and tedious and found myself asking when will this end couldn't even find a way to skip but then I just stopped playing it because it felt like this was just supposed to be a tech demo or something.
 

Condasoft
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 17 April, 2021
The interface is clunky, counter-intuitive. I did not play the 'game', I merely succumbed to it. Choices were limited, and did not always produce expected results. At times, options required pressing (and holding?) the left shift key. If not done quickly, options were missed. I am probably jaded, but I found the plot thin, and the 'action' glacial. The credits appeared, creating the impression that the end had been reached, but apparently, it was only the end of the first chapter. I suppose it must have been just the tip of the iceberg, but I am left cold enough, without exploring the rest of the ice.
 

rba2124
0
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 January, 2021
The visuals are so good other than that this game has such a boring ass story. Didn't expect this from Dontnod.
 

Hmmmm....
383 products in account
1
7 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
13.7 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2021
Your super power is literally misremembering stuff.
 

Kaya Orsan
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.3 hrs on record
Posted: 28 January, 2023
Horrible story all about traumas and child abuse. atleast it was free.
 

Ishmael
368 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2024
Total ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥!!!
 

Sensei
22 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2022
Got it for free

Its ♥♥♥♥
 

BÖSSENÖSSE
77 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 12 January, 2021
I'm not sure what I was expecting, but 2 hrs in and I felt like I was forcing myself to interact with my surroundings and the few characters I encountered. The choices felt limited and boring, which sucks because I loved Life is strange and even the sequel! on top of it as a transman myself, I had been looking forward to get my hands on this game and play it. I felt let down and will not be picking up this game again.
 

N o i r
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 20 February, 2024
Product received for free

Dontnod used to be one of my favorite game developers. They made the Life is Strange games, the first of which is one of my favorite games of all time. However, this seems to take a detour from their usual quality standards. I cannot speak to the quality of the entire story, because I could only make it through the beginning before I got too bored to go on. The game has that same classic Dontnod feel both in terms of visuals and controls, but the story is just not great. Dontnod has a history of tackling important societal issues in each game, which is good, and that remains true here, but that seems to be the entirety of this story. It feels more like a love letter to certain topics rather than an actual game. Another problem is that the characters are just not relatable. While the aspect of gender identity can be relatable to some, just going by how the characters in the story act, it's hard to understand them. After playing three hours of the game I still know very little about the story of the twins, apart from what was divulged in the opening exposition of the game. Additionally, the twins are both just not nice to each other. I get that sibling rivalry exists but it seems that every other line of dialogue between the two comes off as a jab to one and other or a backhanded compliment. It's hard to become invested in these characters and care about them when, from what you see in the first three hours at least, they just aren't nice people. I wish I could recommend this game, but I can't. This is an odd left hook to Dontnod's usual work and it seems that their quality is beginning to go downhill, just like so many other companies. It's truly sad to see. I was fortunate enough to pick this game up for free during a sale, but if you are considering spending money on this, just don't.
 

CallmeKane315
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2021
After finishing the game I was extremely disappointed even though 1) it was a freebie and 2) I didn't expect much in the first place.

You get through the slogfest (which was named here Episode 1) with weird camera angles and unnatural dialogue, then Ep. 2 starts and it feels far better, but the dialogue part of the game still often looks like it was ripped straight out of bad fanfiction. You think 'ok I can do that, I can finish the game for the sake of the story' but it's dragging and dragging and there's a whole lot of rubbish info and options and scenes and characters that do not contribute to the whole premise at all unlike it was in LiS. Then Ep. 3 starts and you pretty much hyped to learn the truth already but turns out the whole story buildup doesn't make any sense in the end and you've been suffering for nothing. I'd be far more satisfied If I'd just looked up starting cutscene of the game and endings on YT, because that's how the whole story looks like laid bare. Everything in between is just a filler.

Also what irks me is that 2nd protagonist, Tyler, is very unlikable character and the game seems to push his narrative with 'bond' mechanic making him even more unlikable since said mechanic doesn't make sense. There are two types of decisions in the game: the one which drives siblings away from each other and the one that tightens their bond. But quite often decisions deemed by the game as 1st type have literally nothing to do with it. It mostly happens when you take Aly's position instead of Tyler's and it's not like you're choosing between them separating or them being together, you're choosing between their different opinions on situations or between their different memories. That's it. It doesn't contribute to their relationship in the aforementioned matter, only that somehow it does and If you don't agree with Tyler's vision you're driving the twins apart.

That being said, it's not entirely a terrible game, it has its moments, but you won't miss anything If you won't try it.
 

n#n#m#
418 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2023
The gameplay is not great. It is nice to see more trans representation in games but ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ is the narrative so stupid. How can someone fail so badly at trying to be a supportive parent that you are abusive. Also Tyler is so stupid, your mother who was trying to accept you and understand you wasn't even doing anything that could be considered a threat to you, so your first thought is to shoot her. So much in this is unnecessary like the book of goblins, and the antagonistic evil forces from the book. Also there is no need for Tyler and Alyson to have a supernatural bond, they could just remember stuff that happened, and they could just talk out loud because they are essentially completely alone for the majority of the story. I already know exactly where the narrative is going before I even reach the half way point in chapter one, so everything after is completely pointless to experience.
 

Ms Krystal
90 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
Product received for free

I would give this game a neutral rating if I just could. I just cannot give a positive review after playing so many better similar games: Life is Strange, The Wolf Among Us, The Walking Dead series and Detroit Become Human. Do not get me wrong. The game looks amazing, the characters are believable, and the voice acting is also good. You might even end up liking it. To me the story is just so slow and… boring would be the best word to describe it. The devs could have done so much more with the setting. The superpower also feels a bit gimmicky, and the story could have been told even without it. I only finished the game for the achievements when the two last chapters were given for free. Otherwise, I would not have bothered.
 

KickMachine
689 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
30.1 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2024
I finished it just to finish it but it wasn't really all that enjoyable. The story had so much potential but it didn't make sense to have us choose certain decisions.
 

Yerger
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
The acting is really bad
 

Metaa
293 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March, 2021
Tell me why anyone would waste any of their life playing this borefest?

Most boring game Ive ever played and Ive played around a thousand or more

Dont waste your life on this.
 

Soul Hunter
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2021
♥♥♥♥ game
 

Washed player
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2024
Boring
 

michael.517
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.0 hrs on record
Posted: 24 September, 2023
The story's a mess (weird plot points that goes on for way longer than they should) while the endings are unsatisfying. Positive dialogues feel forced and unnatural. Bad writing. Annoying main character. Mid gameplay (compared to something like Detroit: Become Human). This game is not worth your time. 2/10
 

GunSaint=Easy
48 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.6 hrs on record
Posted: 30 September, 2020
Another miss from Dontnod. I thought the transgender representation was good and I was glad to see it, but it felt insulting to rely on that as the main character development and to wrap it in a terrible plot. The game is boring, the 'superpower' is boring and the plot just didn't interest me. If the only reason anyone should be interested in your game is because it has a trans character in it, then you haven't made a good game. Also, the environmental talk was really jarring, dropped like a clanger throughout conversations that it didn't fit in. Life is Strange was an exceptional game because the plot was interesting from the get-go and the rewind power/beautiful environment added to that.

Having played the whole game, I was really disappointed with the quality of the plot. The environments were beautiful and often I would just walk around, taking it all in. But the script was clunky, the scene at the end with all the exposition felt weird and I honestly saw the paternity reveal coming a mile away. I love a storytelling game, but there needs to be a lot more invested in the quality of the script for these kinds of games to work. Beautiful surroundings don't cut it on their own, and throughout the game I shouldn't be constantly wondering why I should care what happens next.
 

PeachyB
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.6 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2022
So the story isn't terrible, actually pretty good, but I do have some complaints.

You play as two characters, and the girl is, to put it plainly, a wimp who can't be confrontational.

These characters have set personalities, which means you can't do anything they wouldn't do. Which makes sense, but most the games I play, and I reckon most the games others play, allow you to approach a situation how you would.

It's very stressful, to say the least, playing a character that doesn't know how to stand up for herself. Very similar to when your movement speed in a game is so slow, and you can yell at the screen to go faster, but you'll still be going at a slug's pace.

Let me stress that I don't dislike the game. It just isn't worth buying, in my opinion. I got it when the game was free. So if it ever goes free again, then yes, I do recommend it. Just know (and I believe the game tells you as much) that you'll be seeing some potentially triggering content for those struggling with anxiety, depression, etc.

Good game, but certainly not for everyone, not for me, and I can't recommend that you spend a dime on it.
 

TacticalKit10
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2021
I'm on the fence about this game. The graphics are very well done, but gameplay and options are minimal at best and it is extremely slow moving. Sadly I won't be finishing this game, as I just got too bored, but the idea behind it is great and the visuals are well done.
 

Tinibat1
166 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2024
Even after getting it for free I still feel like I got ripped off, I really couldn't bring myself to enjoy this game, I was always hoping for a big pay off or surprising twist but it was just painfully generic, especially when you consider that these are the same people who have made the life is strange games.
 

Myjacob99
1,040 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.3 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
Product received for free

This game is literally a cutscene/talking simulator with some walking and couple of puzzles to solve. Plot in nutshell: 2 siblings return to sell their childhood house and try to solve what really happened to their mother when they were kids.
Plot isn't exactly that bad but it leaves most of it's end for player to decide. Graphics and sounds are decent for this style of game. Main complaint is that pacing is off and game is just boring.
If you are really a friend of games where you mostly just watch cutscenes, then this is your game and can be bought for couple of euros. Otherwise i'll suggest to avoid this.
 

[FoH] Kiteus
0
11 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
not intresting at all, boring story, basic characters.
 

Benizakura
378 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 September, 2023
Beautifully made, but essentially a soap opera and so, so so, slow. I'm sure many people will love it, but I became irritated quite quickly.
 

regreen
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2021
‎
 

Siwkann
499 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 March, 2024
Product received for free

Too boring for my taste. I couldn't finish it...
 

diarandor
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.7 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2022
Product received for free

Most boring game ever played. At least is short.
 

Hüber
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 January, 2021
Not as good as the life is strange games and the choices presented to the player rarely make you pause and reflect on what to pick. Moreover, I usually have no issues with the gameplay in walking sim games but some of the gameplay elements here feel like padding and the game feels like it should have been a film and not a game at a lot of these moments. Finally, the mental health issues that the game touches almost feel surface level(especially with the mom character). Finally, the game goes on for way too long to convey this simple story. Its not bad by any means but def nothing amazing about the game
 

abhinandhan263
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 January, 2021
I hate to say this but Tell Me Why really disappoint me. I looked forward to play this game as I like Life is Strange 1 very much. (I also played LiS 2. The story is not as interesting as LiS 1. But its soundtrack is amazing.) The only good thing I can say is that the graphics is beautiful. Even the soundtrack in Tell Me Why is below my expectation. I can barely remember any songs from the game. The story is kinda bland, not touching at all.

Here are some points that I don't like about in this game.

1. The control of character
The control is kinda awkward. It is a bit difficult to interact with the environment. I sometimes couldn't click on the point even I was standing right in front of the thing.

2. Unrealistic plot
There is a scene that the twinsUnbelievable.

Apart from this, Mary-Ann, with the help of Sam, had transformed her loft.Seriously, who will construct a loft like that, and how can it be done.

3. Poor finish
Episode 1 tells us that

Despite figuring out what Mary-Ann's going through, the twins also found out who their father is in the last chapter.

Normally, as I remember, LiS will have 1-2 minutes clip telling us how the lives of the characters go on after the whole series of events. Unfortunately, Tell Me Why doesn't have any of that. It ends in a odd way.

4. Collectibles in the game
The idea of letting player having collections is actually okay. However, there are some collectibles should be belong to other people's property.I felt so wrong after taking it.
 

ragingfire
0
8 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
9.0 hrs on record
Posted: 2 December, 2020
I cannot recommend this game to anyone. It has the original Life is Strange 'Vibe'. But thats all it is. After playing it, I see it only played upon my nostalgia of Arcadia Bay and offered no subtance of its own.

You play as a transgender character which is unique, if you come from a certain political perspective you will find this game connects to you very well. In its defense I can say they did not take it as far as the could have, as far as for example Life is Strange 2 did take it.
So if you are doubtfull of enjoying a game with a prescribed point of view you have to ask yourself if this story if for you to begin with.

The gameplay is a strange mix of little busiwork, tiny puzzles and button prompts. It cannot be overstated how bad it is. If you place it side by side with other games in its genre you might see similarities. But you have to realise that "picking up the trash" in a narrative driven game is only exciting gameplay if you are either: Still contemplating on wtf just happened to your character or super scared of what might just happen next. the spell of the storyline is so easily broken that most of the time you spend uninterested and just clicking through the gameplay.

The story is a crime mystery, supernatural experience, tale of two sisters and a transsexual transition all in one. It is all over the place. It shifts incredibly fast from one to the other, and leaves you out of the loop and in total disbelief of the protagonists and their reactions. Or of those of the people around them. This makes you disconnect with everything that is happening. (Alysson can tell Eddy a certain something, and then walk out the door within 20 seconds without it having any effect on the story)

The setting of Alaska, its locations are beautiful, like i said in the beginning, this game does have the Life is Strange vibe. It will enchant you for a bit but theres just nothing there to hold ur attention for 9 hours.
 

Jarl
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 30 June, 2024
The main story is emotional and engaging, but:
- The complete game is too long (about 8-9 hours). It can get tedious at times. I would have liked it more if there would be an option at the beginning of the game to only choose to stick to the main story, and cut the time by 2-4 hours.
- Most puzzles are not very interesting, and should just have been kept out of the game in my opinion.
 

MdBrown
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2023
Story lacking interest and being immensely boring, no clue why devs choose to make a game like this.
 

Ronin Wrath
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
I feel like choices don't really matter in this game. I'm upset that I paid $30 and now its free in June. I don't see a replay value like I usually do in these types of games.
 

Hyacinth
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.5 hrs on record
Posted: 13 September, 2024
She's annoying. He's annoying. I bet their mother was annoying.
I cannot with these characters and the emotional bond they want to force on the player that just can't happen because these people are insufferable.
 

Duda
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2024
Tell me why I bothered. Good thing I got it for free.
 

Sremmus
265 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2021
This is the longest "Transphobia bad" post I've ever read.
 

Garganit
1,672 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 September, 2022
Product received for free

Honestly this game never interested me and playing through it didn't do much to change that opinion for me. Oh well though. I got it free and easy achievements if you wanna follow a guide
 

Fridae_ | Twitch
1,242 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 31 March, 2021
This game is the worst from the company. It's essentially a "Life Is Strange" Title with HD graphics instead of the usual cell-shaded style. However the plot and characters in this one have even less choices and you're pretty much stuck as one character for the majority of the game. (From what i've seen from the first hour and read from other reviews.)
 

Yeast Lord
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 21 March, 2021
Made from the guts of the Life is Strange storytelling and a gentle touch of sci-fi thriller. It failed to impress as much as its older counter parts.

While the scenery and characters felt more alive, The narration of the story was the thorn in my side. The plot was good, but the squeeze of their personalities aggravated me.

Understanding that you MUST portray those characters, as they choose their role for you, irritated me in a game about choices.

Spoilers ahead:

1. To gay or not to gay.
If I am forced to play as a trans male, why must I be obligated to choose between gay or to abstain? Why does this matter? Why not trans-male-lesbian? More importantly, why force-feed that into the story when it didn't advance the plot at all? Because of this, I could not relate to the character at all. Although, I am grateful that a character like this exists for those who needed it. But trying to walk a mile in their shoes and all, is good, but was a hard pill to swallow because I didn't like them. >inb4 homophobic comments.

2. What are plot elements?
I liked the metaphor from the stories, but you don't find the 'A-ha!' moment in the story because its literally a collection of stories you get in the beginning and constantly use to solve the puzzles. So... what is the climax, if the book told you who the baddy was all along? Choosing who to blame the guilt on. No, really.

3. Limited choices.
Throughout the LiS series, you had to make many choices that mattered or vastly changed how the story arc was. It was emotionally charged and went as the player's emotions did. However, in TMW, you have to choose to side angsty man-baby or scared girl. There was never a middle ground where you can choose to keep a cool head and investigate further.

4. Too cafe-house, not enough indie.
The main draw a player comes to a Dontnod game is how they bring raw emotion and captivation to their story telling. In LiS: How many times did you want to hug Kate and tell her she was gonna be okay? "Okay great, now... Do that, but with whatserface, because we told you to." The problem was the character's defining moments were one-shots instead of building up to a relationship. When Aly had her confession/breakdown, nothing built up to it. It just happened by deciding to push a button. But in LiS, from the moment you talked to Kate, and saw her several times after, to the time she was about to jump, you built that emotional tie to her. That frantic heart wrenching moment when your actions determined if she would live or die was powerful, and sorely missed here.

In conclusion:

If you are a gay trans-male, you like murder-mystery, and simple game mechanics focused on narrative, give the first episode a try, you might get hooked and enjoy it.

If you like substantial emotional stories that focus on player choice, and fulfilling story arcs that blow your mind. Try elsewhere. I should have.
 

Nighthawk
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
18.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 August, 2021
Product received for free

What's sad about Tell Me Why, it's that deep inside this game has a great and good story, but it's buried underneath a big pile of poorly written dialogue, unnecessary forced agenda and soulless characters. And what makes it even sadder is that the game overall looks stunning; it’s beautiful, the graphics are amazing and the exploring is enjoyable.

I was truly interested in the twins' past, in their evolution and how the really coped with all the trauma. About how their mother influenced their character, about the whole “memory” mechanics and how the twins were bound together. This entire back story hooked me, it was good and I wanted to give a resolve to their story (I am referring about the endings, but I will not spoil them). So why I am saying “back story”? Because all the LGBT scenes (which this game so hardly tried to impersonate) are really empty and they feel forced and entirely detached from reality, as if the devs made a small research on the internet and chose to represent what they think about this matter and not illustrating the experience as it should be.

Tyler IS a very interesting character (it is even more likeable than his sister) but every time he pointed out obsessively about his gender, managed to take me out of the story I was enjoying and from the immersion. I was expecting a good LGBT story, but it is so poorly written that if you remove every interaction/mention about Tylor being trans, the story itself is not changing. It does not add anything good to the entire plot and it can be literally cut out without impacting how the story evolves. That bad.
 

CrissSpirit
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 24 July, 2021
Boring af.....

Their previous games had very good story telling pace, this one isn't. On top of that, it introduces half-assed super power that I don't even know how relevant it is to the story, it's there for the sake of being there to enhance the sibling's LGBT bond.

This is why Social Justice Warriors shouldn't be allowed to direct any narrative-based projects.
 

NOT FUFUFAFA
4,142 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful
14 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
0/10 Went into the game and got completely disappointed by the lack of back street boys.
 

KirbyKnight
880 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
9 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2022
Controlling a character and interacting with things is a nightmare. This game is really weird to a 45 year old guy like me.
 

2100
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
13.0 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2020
Bugs make the game unplayable. No word from the dev on this since September. Buy something else and don't waste your money or time here.
 

Skaava
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2023
I enjoyed Tell Me Why, but wouldn't recommend playing it. Instead, I'd say buy a copy and then try and watch someone on YouTube who doesn't narrate as they play just take you through it (hopefully cutting some of the least important story elements out along the way).

Allow me to explain.

Tell Me Why starts off STRONG.... There's very much a 'This is going to be ten times better than the meandering, whiny, and claustrophobic 'Life is Strange: True Colors'. You get a feel you might be getting into what should have been Life Is Strange 3.... Right off at the start, you're shown this vast ocean scene with a rich field of view, and you have a sense you will be able to explore a story in a large sandbox with great characters. That sense of freedom gets expanded upon outside of a gas-station / mini-mart. You get the feeling the world will be opening up.

That... ends up not being the case, but the story at least keeps you interested for the remainder of the episodes. In fact, what ends up happening is you have a good story hidden behind a mechanically and interactively weak game. Tell Me Why would've been better off as a movie than a game, and the few times it feels like it's trying to be a game (fishing, backroom tag, a file investigation that's barely a game, and a few puzzles that feel like old NES educational video game challenges more than actual games), it just feels... bad.

The Dontnod team maintains their excellent story telling track record but ruins it by cutting a lot of corners. The one good thing about Tell Me Why is that some of the story moves along fast enough that you don't have time to notice how small the game is compared to any of the three Life is Strange entries. Unfortunately, they take a good story with decent pacing and instead of making it feel truly interactive or deciding 'lets just make an FMV project', they tried to force it into a Life-is-Strange shaped box that didn't feel right for this project.

Finally, when you do reach the end, there are just too many dangling threads - they keep the focus on the kids and maybe because it's the kids story, that was an intentional choice. Still though, when you do character driven, it would be nice to see how everyone ends up, not just your two main characters.

So again - Don't waste your time playing it, but don't be afraid to find a way to watch a highly edited version of it so it feels more like a tv mini-series. Maybe if they see enough people paying for it on steam but having 0 hours of playtime, they'll get the message and go back to the drawing board for their next project?
 

DiamondHandsMelliot
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.4 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2021
Boring
 

Five_O
30 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
17.1 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2023
This is totally not DONTNOD's best work yet.

The story's pacing is very slow, without much a hook to grab you, and I found the ending to be, overall, forgettable.
 

the ick
1,335 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.8 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2023
Just a bad game. plain and simply bad.
 

Hathen
149 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2023
"Played" this "game" for 30 minutes. It was nothing but unskippable cutscenes with the occasional interaction of pushing some sort of button or moving the character 10 feet. It's not a game at all. It's just a digitally rendered movie.
 

Not Sure
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.5 hrs on record
Posted: 10 July, 2023
When I first saw this game, I was excited to play it. It seemed like it would be a very emotional story about abuse and gender identity, which are topics that people can find relatable and easy to sympathize with. However, upon playing the game I quickly came to the realization about the writing and dialogue. Everything is over-narrated and the two main characters are cringey and unlikable, especially Tyler. To put it bluntly, Alyson is an idiot and Tyler is a prick. Tyler is so quick to be defensive and rude to everyone for the smallest things that are not even remotely their fault, and the fact that they even try to be nice to Tyler makes them genuine heroes. The story overall is just a complete mess because the way it is presented by the game is constantly throwing new questions at the player and having them go on a wild goose chase to the point where some parts of the game seem genuinely pointless. The story tries so hard to blame side characters, such as Eddie and Tom even though they basically did nothing wrong. To summarize without spoiling the story, Tyler gets mad at Eddie for being a police officer that does his job, and both Tyler and Alyson get mad at Tom for regretting a mistake he made like 20 years before the events of the game. At the end of the game it surprises the player with a plot twist that has no build up or realistic foundation whatsoever, and tries to make one of the most humble and likable characters into the bad guy, and yet still fails to do so. In fact at the end of the game I was more against Tyler and Alyson than at the beginning, because by trying to put the blame onto someone else, it somehow just made the main characters seem even more like ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. Every side character, even the extremely minor side characters like an old man you talk to once at the very beginning of the game, are really likable or at least have some redeeming qualities. The main characters might actually be the worst written main characters I have seen in a videogame ever, because it tries so hard to convince the player that they are good people, but fail miserably because they act like total incompetent ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ throughout the entire story. The best part of the game was in the third chapter, when Alyson was having a panic attack and crying, and I can't tell if that part was good because it's easy to sympathize with someone who is having a panic attack, or because it was the only part of the game where the main characters shut the ♥♥♥♥ up. It honestly frustrates me that I have to dislike this game so much because it takes on topics that some can find relatable and very serious and emotional, and it frustrates me even more that most of the people who played this game liked it as much as they did. People only like this game because it talks about abuse, gender identity, and it was free during pride month. Not even the gameplay is good. The puzzles are just reading a line of text and pressing a button that lines up with the text, which is literally what teenagers have to do as homework for their history class. The dialogue is poorly written and the voice acting is mediocre, and having conversations in the game is the equivalent to seeing a choice of two dialogue options that feel like picking between the good ending or the bad ending, because it is so mind numbingly simple. The worst part is that no matter what, the main characters still end up as ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ that didn't learn a thing even if you get the "good" ending.

TLDR: The dialogue and writing sucks, the gameplay sucks, the story is a cluster ♥♥♥♥, the main characters are extremely unlikable, and this game got the opposite of review bombed because there's a trans person in it.

1/10 the only good part was that it's free during pride month.
 

Vignette
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2023
Product received for free

Oh, well..
- Graphics is fine, taking into account it's 2020 made in UE4.
- Sound is strangely balanced (even on headphones you have to direct your view to speaking person otherwise the loudness is very limited and almost not hearible).
- Idea of seeing pieces of history is excellent.
- But building a story on trans or other LGBT* ("*" meaning as wild card) is cheap with a purposeful topic with the goal of unjustified enrichment, knowing that any criticism will be prohibited, is just not right. It should be advertised trully or at least been mentioned in "Mature Content Description".
I have NO problem with anyone. It's everyones thing if he or she or it doesn't feel as it was born.
But if I choose to play A GAME as a women (e.g. Lara Croft) it's ok - I chossed it. If I create my character in some character builder (e.g. Fallout) as one of those, it's my choice. But I feel offenced to be forced to play as a character I was not informed before and goes against my belief.
It totally killed my enthusiasm about it and I'm trully sorry.
 

4bsolut0R
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2023
Product received for free

A little bit boring but copium of Life of Strange, just more boring. 6/10
 

Devon
41 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2021
Literally nothing happened in the first hour of the game.
 

Bansexual
222 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 13 May, 2024
Mediocre story. Barely any choices.
 

gameSTICKER
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 28 July, 2021
Product received for free

this is the worst game ive ever played the concept isnt bad and i love the trans representation BUT ITS SO POORLY WRITEN IT MAKES ME CRY LMAO
 

jasmine
101 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 4 July, 2023
no wonder they give it for free like every weekend...
 

MindGoblin
135 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 15 December, 2022
This game is boring af. I tried to give it a chance to play it until I finish it but i can't. 1 hour is all I could give to this game.
 

pergament神
49 products in account
0
13 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
This game is so lame, dry and slow. Is about to siblings with superpowers who go back to a house were everything is the same as 10 years ago...and there is no dust on anything...slow start, puzzle on door just because, and a lot of things that make no sense for a story so serious
 

tzikipiki
818 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2021
Product received for free

Although I enjoyed parts of the game and appreciate getting this for free during Pride Month, I can't recommend it as a title you'd have to pay for. A lot of negative reviews state the game "pushes an agenda" or is "political". That is just plain stupid as neither are true. As for my own thoughts:

The story itself is extremely shallow and padded over too many hours. It can be summarised in a few minutes using the beginning of episode 1, the middle of 2, and the end of 3. Most of the conversations are outright boring and don't contribute much to the plot. The characters are uninteresting, and the biggest driver behind the plot is how the two protagonists remember things from their childhood. The endings of the game are based on which of the twins' memory you choose to canonise. It's only two extremes, A or B, with no middle ground.

In the first chapter, which almost caused me to stop playing altogether and would've prompted me to request a refund if I had actually paid for it, Tyler's character is extremely unlikeable. I'm all for trans representation in video games, but I don't think the way it was implemented is a good way to go. His gender identity is his only personality for the majority of the game aside from being an utter jerk to everyone around him in the first chapter. This clears up during the game, but the character remains shallow and neither show a lot of growth during the three episodes.

I did finish the game over the course of a few nights in the hope that it would lead to some satisfying ending, but this never happened. I can recommend giving it a go now that it's free, but otherwise I'd stay clear. DontNod have some very decent titles out there but this isn't one of them.
 

640509-040147
519 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 December, 2021
Product received for free

Painfully slow pace, stilted dialogue and an underwhelming supernatural element. It's a hallmark of a bad mystery solving game when the audience doesn't even care to solve the mystery, and this game somehow managed that.
 

rixy
77 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 December, 2021
I didn't mind the intro, I don't mind the slow paced gameplay, I sometimes enjoy making one choice and getting 20 minutes of cutscene, I really like solving puzzles.

maybe I am slow ? took me to the first power mom flashback before I sussed they had setup a story with a question that I don't care about or want the answer to. thank god episode 1 was free, I wouldn't want to do a complete play-though of this game if I were paid.

life is strange 1 was a masterpiece but after 2 and this I think I have had my fill of DONTNOD,
 

Esper
0
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 July, 2022
Mira te soy sincero tipo esta bueno el juego pero deja muchas cosas sin resolver y ademas no hay tiros por ende es aburrido.
 

Pato
1
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
16.7 hrs on record
Posted: 14 January, 2023
They did not tell me why. Shall I?
 

Jet Lag
140 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
16.7 hrs on record
Posted: 7 March
This game was written by Redditors and voice-acted by Tumblr users, you cannot convince me of the contrary.
 

Muxxer
1,895 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 12 April, 2021
Boring!
 

Harp24
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 28 October, 2021
Product received for free

Though it has pretty graphics, the story and writing was extremely boring. Gave up after 2 hours.

Overall experience - 3/10
 

schopenhauer_arthur
113 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 April, 2023
Kinda Mid.
 

garr.y
86 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 15 November, 2023
Life is strange but boring af
 

✪yFelpzk1
229 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: 28 November, 2020
Tell Me Why is the first time I was truly disappointed with a DONTNOD Game. LIS 2 was not quite as strong as LIS 1 or its prequel yet still passable, but Tell Me Why, despite exploring potentially compelling issues of trauma and mental illness, just falls flat. Notably, it is too heavy handed as to what the player should think about the decisions of the various characters. LIS 2 had a similar narrative problem, but not to this degree.

Oh well; not every game is a masterpiece: This one dud will not diminish my faith in DONTNOD.
 

bthompson
0
24 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 22 May, 2023
game was pretty mid bruh 😂😂😂

on a serious note. this game was okay..... the story line was there but like i hate playing games that are just revisiting memories from the past (life is strange 3 and twin mirrors core). At least in those two games, they actually had an ongoing story to solve. This game is just about remembering and solving suppressed memories and mysteries that happened YEARS AGO! SNOOZE FEST 😴😴😴!!!! (in a non-transphobic way ofc)
 

vlei thee stallion
149 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.9 hrs on record
Posted: 29 March, 2024
Product received for free

I put a thumbs down as a general recommendation but it's a bit unfair and wish there was a neutral neither thumbs up or thumbs down, I would recommend it to specific people!
You need to like and love these kind of story based games!

It's kinda slow, interactions drag a bit, the game takes overall longer than it should.
Sometimes character interactions/reactions kinda feel forced by the scenario, "here they get angry because reasons, here they get sad because reasons, here they get fussed at each other" script writers find a reason why . It breaks a bit.

All that said, it's full of lots of little stories, a perspective of Tyler's life, the mother's universe, a okay mystery/detective thing and overall story. If you dig these kinds of games it's a fair way to spend your time. If you're unsure or aren't a fan, id skip.

I'm glad I got it for free, I'm not sure what I would have paid for it. Current price of 17€ is a bit steep IMO.
It takes 15h to complete, it should be shortened to 10h. Going by my 1€ for 1H of fun for games rule of thumb. Shouldn't pay more than 10€, id get it for 5-7€ tho.
 

Sadiquecat
123 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
12.5 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
Hopefully it's worth the $0.00 that I spent on it.
 

F2ron
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 6 August, 2023
The game's story is just *way* too slow paced to recommend to others.
 

Skyb0rg
213 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
21.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 August, 2023
Product received for free

The environment (Alaska) looks really beautiful and the story beginning is quite interesting. However, the story advances so slow and most of the conversations are just boring and poorly written. The whole game feels dragged (no pun intended)

While I think that the transgender topic and the struggles people have fitting in when feeling different is displayed somewhat reasonably and comprehensible, I have seen not a single struggle that "Tyler" has experienced while transitioning. Apart from the transitioning process which is displayed exclusively in a positive light, I think the main story was rather weak and I found both gameplay and story quite boring.
 

GoodFella
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 24 March, 2022
This game is well made and the graphics are not astonishing but quite well.
I would have recommened it if it wasn´t for the story.

I only played for about 45 minutes until I couldn´t handle it anymore.

Some cutscenes are annoyingly long and the primary character is so unappealing and dosed in self pity.
I do understand that being trans mostly is very hard due to a lack of understanding in our society, BUT this political correct sh.... is just annoying AF.
It´s good packaging problems of our society into a game to gain attention for those topics, but, PLEASE, make the main character somewhat likeable and not extremely stereotypic and over the top.
 

killerkaetzchen
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
21.3 hrs on record
Posted: 21 September, 2022
Product received for free

Less of a game and more of a high-quality 3D visual novel.

Pros:
- good graphics
- interesting storyline dealing with various themes such as trauma and memory, LGBT issues, family reunions, digging up the past etc.
- generally well-voiced
- chapter/scene shortcuts to obtain collectibles and replay specific events is very nice to have.

Cons:
- not that much to do - each scene really only has a couple of key items/people you need to interact with to progress.
- actions and walking around feel very sluggish, especially the memory sections.
- not that many different scenes, you'll be in locations multiple times.
- replaying to get different outcomes is kinda tedious, even with the conversation skip mechanic, so I recommend a speedhack here.

I got this game for free so I really can't complain too much, but I don't think I'd buy it if I had to.
 

heidi
358 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2021
cringe fest. cringe dialogue, cringe story, and cringe motives.
 

Steezus Christ
141 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.9 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2022
You can't run in this game.
 

schnozky
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 August, 2021
Product received for free

the most boring game on planet!
nothing really happens in this game except for never-ending bland dialogues between two of the most generic and meh characters in video game history. the devs said "ok let's have an edgy trans main character and come up with a story later". well that's not how you create a plot!
the gameplay... well there ain't no gameplay here either and the graphics look 2007 af
but in the end, it was made by Microsoft (Gaybox Game Studios) so what can you expect? of course it sucks
 

-ASTRO-
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March, 2021
Taking into consideration that this is supposed to hook me up to buy the next two episodes I must say I was disappointed. I mean ... the gameplay is decent, the visuals are nice and the soundtrack gives it cool ambiance but the pace is tooooo slow and clumsy. One of the protagonists is kinda pain in the ass and overall it's just ... meh. Especially if you compare it to Life is Strange that was more captivating since the beginning of the story.
 

Rex Crinitus
388 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 27 October, 2024
This game is booooring. Yea, go tell me to play 20h to understand it. No! I dont want to have a cliche dialogue for 30 min. The story is boring, the visuals are bad, the LGBTQ is unnecessary. Dont buy the game, dont get it free. Dont wate your time on it
 

Llapaloma
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 1 February, 2024
Boring 👎🏽
 

kelvinmenzz
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2021
I'm only halfway through chapter 2 and the game is just too boring to continue. Nothing interesting happens.
 

rebel rebel
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
15.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 September, 2020
This is hardly a video game, more like a really slow-paced dragged out movie. I understand they were trying to build up the atmosphere and they were successful at times, but the slow pace really got to me and bored me out of my mind. The game itself is extremely easy and can be easily beat by a 6 year old. There's absolutely nothing challenging about it, it's very linear and the puzzles are extremely simple. If they made it a standalone movie and advertised it as such I would've enjoyed it a lot more. Things you need to do in this game: tidy your room, collect documents from your house, look for your phone, pour yourself coffee, eat a cake, fish and even breathe. Very mundane, very boring. Would not recommend.
 

TinyBoi
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2023
baiano dublando credo
 

Brenno.
272 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 13 January, 2022
I now understand why DONTNOD isn't allowed to work on the Life Is Strange franchise anymore.
 

Altrixia
1,479 products in account
1
13 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 31 May, 2024
Ain't nothing but a mistake...
 

Windows XP
378 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 August, 2022
I like the gameplay but the story and characters is a big let down.
 

kallejmail
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.2 hrs on record
Posted: 20 July, 2024
Wasted my 9 hours for this dull story
 

patily095
0
12 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
19.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 July, 2024
I recently played " Life is Strange " by DONT NOD which was followed by the second one, Life is Strange: Before the Storm developed by Deck Nine.

The first Life is Strange had me at first with its setting, Max, its main character, her day-to-day struggles (but also, growing up story) living as a teenage girl becoming a young woman / art student, I was enjoying the story, that was for more than half of the game, until... the later part became , which was not done well in my opinion, and felt very sloppy and cheap.
And Max’s superpowers which were never really explained nor made any sense (not even in a fantasy setting) would change logic out of nowhere almost as an excuse to move the story in different directions.
This was not a " plot twist " but more like a lazy writing mechanic.

I did like the main characters, Max and Chloe but in the end, I didn't like the story.

A very different thing was the second game "Before the Storm" which was done by Deck Nine. You can check my review for that game for the details, but basically the game took the same characters but with excellent writing and the story elevated itself to unexpected heights. The main character in the game Chloe Price and her relationship with Rachel Amber was written in a way that felt more raw and sincere and didn't shy away from showing a heartfelt love story between two teenage girls. Even if that game was just a secondary story to the first one, it felt so much more meaningful and emotional.


Tell me why is the second game I play from Dont Nod, and sadly I see the same problems I saw in the first Life is Strange. (still have to play the third and fourth ones)

Tyler and Alyson are the two main characters of this story… It seems to be about them, at first, about their childhood being twin sisters one of them being queer and the other loving him no matter what.

The story soon devolves into one of the secondary characters struggles, and so, Tyler as well as Alyson are practically relegated to the back, just being spectators (the same as us, the players) in everything that happens because the game soon devolves in just a long road through memories understanding the past of another character.


Now, this could be perhaps a misunderstanding on my part, but I was under the impression that the game started as one story and ended up as another.

The narrative was always from the brothers point of view, yes, but it was really about someone else.

Maybe because of that, or just how the story was written, the main "story" itself about this other character to me always felt bland and uninspired. It had a thing or two to " reveal " at the end to the brothers but it was too little, too late.

One of the two twins, Tyler being transexual, wasn't really something that was featured prominently. The game kind of markets itself at times as being " LGBTQ+" friendly and it even has a loading screen reminding you that they consulted with GLAAD about trans representation and also telling you that you can seek help if needed.

It is a double edge sword I believe... because it certainly fills my heart to play a game with a trans main character since I love to play as a woman or trans or any other character besides your middle age/young man. But, trying to lean too much on it without being that much important, seems to be a disconnected narrative, putting the " label " to it to something that really isn't.

Also, the trans character having “a tragic past” and being afraid of being himself because of how difficult it was being trans, while it is something realistic it’s also becoming something tiring and repetitive to see really quick.

As a trans person myself while I value the struggles of being Trans shown on media, I would also like to see Trans people just being themselves, doing any other thing (other than being sad) having a relationship, being happy, being sad, being funny, being a good person, being a bad person, just being, a person like anybody else. And not be pathologized and put in a “box “because of being “trans“. That’s like assuming any gay person needs “help“ because they’re gay.

I think that way of looking at trans people has to change.

And, to be clear, this is not a complain about the story in Tell me why being " not trans enough " but more about appearing to be going one way but then going another way.
If the story is not really about Tyler being trans, and more about this other character, it is completely fine, but then it should be more focused on what it really is.

This is more a family drama; two twins have a traumatic family tragedy when they were young... they reunite later in life as young adults to take care of the family house and so they investigate what really happened.... oh, and one of them happens to be trans.
If you want to play a game with a story centered on at least one aspect of being Trans I recommend “If found “a small game by dreamfeel which feels much stronger on what it wants to say to you and doesn’t hold anything back from telling you an honest story from an honest point of view.
In Tell me why, it is important for Tyler’s character to be trans, absolutely. It defines much of him as a character. But the story is not really about Tyler, is about .

So, in the end the message is mixed, it dilutes as it happens, and while the game is beautifully done, with some great visuals, some good music and nice voice acting, as usual by DONT NOD, the story falls.

This review written ©2024 by Aleena.
 

Aleena
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2024
didnt enjoy the story
i felt it a bit boring and the powers they had felt boring as well
 

Noard
39 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 November, 2023
Game says it's all for transgender people, continuously states people are either male or female. Forced my character to kill a fish for no good reason lol
 

eggleon
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 20 September, 2021
boring.
 

Budoman
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2023
Extremely boring, monotonous and at points, tedious. Do not recommend sitting thru this pain train
 

Snot Lord
132 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 29 October, 2022
Product received for free

I can't relate to these characters.
 

Saber
44 products in account
0
23 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2023
Wasn't my cup of tea.
 

Misfit Sparkle
240 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 26 May, 2022
I'm a huge fan of DONTNOD and their Life is Strange games, but damn, this game was so boring I had to quit after an hour of playing and even the hour felt soooo ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ boring, I was hoping it would get better but unfortunately I was wrong. The story felt meaningless, I couldn't relate to the characters at all, and they seemed very unrealistic, almost as if were they robots. I have to say, that this was the most boring game I have ever played and the only positive I can think of were the graphics. I STRONGLY DON'T RECOMMEND

 

Zomb
98 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.4 hrs on record
Posted: 25 December, 2021
Product received for free

I enjoyed the ride but there's so much missing, not even replaying is worth it.
The top thing are the graphics, story is slowpaced and never elaborates more than what we know. I really feel this game was only made for LGBT with the constant addressing in dialogue.
I just feel that without a good story, there's no way to build anything. They had potencial with some characters appearing in the end of the first episode.
Too many cutscenes with filler information and so much time with those.

Could've been better.



Best wishes,

Bogas
 

Bogas
98 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2022
Product received for free

Worst story line game out there, your choices do 0 impact for the story and the story it self is a total boring mess. BTW, this should not even be called a game, because 50% of the time you are just afk listening to ♥♥♥♥. The characters are also idiotic. 0/10.
 

Sp1cy ツ
181 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
Drawn out awkward siblings cringe with implied youth killing and jump scare, exploiting fictional trauma as an excuse to discomfort and project that trauma onto viewers. Would rather watch Blade Runner or a series of Max Headroom.
 

PHOBIE
0
17 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
I don't like this game.. endless cutscenes which you can't actually skip. Slow gameplay but i guess for the fans of that type of games it would be a nice experience. It seems like it has a great storyline, the visuals on max settings are really good, but just not my type of game.
 

Beff Jezos
93 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 18 August, 2021
Too bad. Tyler is so edgy and selfish while Alyson is the one who has to carry everything. At the beginning it's quite good but then you will feel Tyler is just a b1tch. Not gonna suggest.
 

Rilek
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 26 February, 2023
Boring game with a barely there story. Such a let down where other games from these developers are really good. Wish I'd saved my money
 

Luna_lily22
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2023
L game
 

Tyrone
0
7 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 18 October, 2023
This game is big time garbage, Don't waste your money on this
 

Demon ♡
1,165 products in account
1
15 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
6.6 hrs on record
Posted: 30 August, 2020
Love this type of format, just didn't like the story. I hope they will producers makes more, because quality is nice. You might like the story.
 

Swimrat
288 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March, 2021
pretty crap
 

NaZReD
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 29 July, 2022
Too slow paced for me.
 

Corndog
128 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.0 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2021
Product received for free

Nice graphics, story is ok, game play needs more puzzles and interactivity. Don't like the gender transition side of the story and Michael drama part with Tylor
 

KasperKyd
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 26 December, 2024
Product received for free

Not my cup of tea this game, its too much story and kinda boring, dont get me wrong i love a bit of good story but this was too much story and not enough action and gameplay
 

B!mBÓ
37 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 January
Uninspired and Underwhelming

Tell Me Why sets out to tell a deeply personal story with important themes, but unfortunately, it struggles to deliver on its potential. While it has moments of emotional resonance, the weak pacing, lack of meaningful player agency, and repetitive gameplay make it a disappointing experience.

The story is the heart of the game, but it fails to leave a lasting impression. While the relationship between the twins, Tyler and Alyson, is central to the narrative, their dynamic feels underexplored. The game often relies on surface-level dialogue and flashbacks instead of giving the player deeper moments to connect with the characters. The mystery surrounding their past starts off intriguing but fizzles out as it becomes predictable and heavy-handed. By the time the major revelations unfold, they lack the emotional impact the game clearly intended.

The gameplay, much like other Dontnod titles, revolves around exploration and dialogue choices, but here it feels especially limited and repetitive. You spend much of your time walking through small environments, interacting with objects, and piecing together memories. While this sounds engaging in theory, the execution is underwhelming. The exploration feels like busywork, with most interactions offering little to no meaningful context. The memory mechanic, which allows you to see conflicting versions of the past, is an interesting idea but ultimately feels underutilized and gimmicky.

Another major disappointment is the lack of player agency. While the game presents itself as a narrative-driven adventure with choices that matter, most decisions feel inconsequential. The outcomes barely change the story, leaving you with the impression that your input doesn’t really matter. It’s frustrating to feel like a passenger in a game that’s supposed to be about shaping a personal, emotional journey.

The pacing is also an issue. The game drags through its three episodes, with long stretches where very little happens. While Dontnod is known for slow-burn storytelling, Tell Me Why takes this to an extreme, often feeling like it’s padded with unnecessary filler. This, combined with the game’s small, lifeless environments, makes the experience feel tedious and uninspired.

On a positive note, Tell Me Why deserves credit for its representation of underrepresented communities. Tyler’s portrayal as a transgender man is respectful and groundbreaking, and the game does well to handle this aspect with care. However, representation alone doesn’t make up for a weak story and bland gameplay.

In the end, Tell Me Why feels like it’s trying to replicate the emotional depth of games like Life is Strange but lacks the nuance, charm, and impactful storytelling that made those games stand out. While it’s worth acknowledging the game’s intentions, the overall execution leaves much to be desired.
 

DarkZachary
105 products in account
0
26 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 22 May, 2021
don't buy.
 

W=F.SCOSθ
797 products in account
6
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 9 September, 2021
NOTHING HAPPENS
 

Check
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.6 hrs on record
Posted: 27 July, 2021
Product received for free

Got this for free in June for Pride Month. If it were more than three chapters I don't think I'd have even bothered playing past chapter two. Its like Life is Strange, but if you removed all the intrigue. Life is Strange had murderer teachers, a death cult, and alternate dimensions. This one has goblins. The cringe is much more obvious when there's nothing interesting to distract me from it. Predictable plot had me guessing "exciting" twists long before they happened, so even the end of chapter one reveal didn't do anything for me. Boo goblins.
 

legendaryvkickr
230 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
44.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2021
I loved all of the all the other games but this game's story is trying too hard to be edgy and is boring
 

Nox
214 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 27 December, 2023
Product received for free

this game is awful not worth the $0
 

PopleWople
109 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 23 August, 2023
No one is going to read this. But I am gay.
 

Sanosuke
88 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
15.4 hrs on record
Posted: 6 October, 2021
i really really wanted to like this game but it's just so painfully subpar. for how beautiful it is and how important the representation is, it really fumbled the game. the endings are both rushed and wholly unsatisfying, as is really the entire last chapter. there was so much promise but the pacing, some of the dialogue, and the overall result of the game was just a huge let down.
 

joey
26 products in account
1
6 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2021
I couldn't get through the first chapter.

Cringe is what I felt
then on my knees I knelt
I don't like this game at all
so by me it's rating will fall

emotionally unstable children with telepathy
have dialoge in a way too high quantity
now I will go and have a drink
for this game, I know does stink
 

Lobter
69 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2021
Product received for free

Best to describe this game is by saying "meh".
in my 2.3 hr playtime, I found the story to be not very interesting. The voice acting in this game sucks, specially tyler's. The dialogue can be extremely cringy at times. The 2 main characters are not that interesting to follow. and that about sums it up.
Also may I add, I've played all 3 LiS games and loved them all. This however didn't hit the mark for me.
 

Mustache
213 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
21.3 hrs on record
Posted: 25 December, 2022
Product received for free

I'm going to list the positive things first:
The setting is very unique (set in Alaska) and the character setup is also unique, getting to play as 2 different twins and one of them is trans. The sound is also really good and plenty of immersive outdoor sounds, etc.

Now onto the bad..
The game is rather long, it took me 21 hours to beat as more or less a completionist and there are only 3 chapters. The story is there but it's spread thin over the 21 hours and a lack of characters. I get it, it's a small town in Alaska, but come on. After the second chapter I debated on even finishing the game as it was getting boring and I was losing interest in some of the characters and the story. There aren't a lot of characters and there's only 1 romance option who is a gay man. Better than nothing but I was hoping for 2 or 3 different options. There wasn't a lot of music in the game unlike Life is Strange. It tried to focus on a touchy piano score which somewhat worked. Overall it was no where near as fun, interesting or exciting as Life is Strange. I kept thinking it would get more and more exciting but it was rather the opposite and they teased this bear attack and I really believed they would do a scene with it and it never happened! (would have added a lot if it did). Things like that would have made this a much more exciting game and I feel that it missed out on a lot of opportunities. Everyone is a little too nice, even if they are an antagonist. The gameplay felt very simple and I was really hoping for more here.
 

TofuStranger
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
9.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 August, 2021
Product received for free

This game is actually very well done, story wise. It explores some challenging themes and I really enjoyed it. The game play was pretty good too - I didn't feel like any of the puzzles were too challenging but I still felt a sense of achievement when I cracked them. The artwork is gorgeous and I love the main characters.

You're probably wondering why I don't actually recommend this game, then, if I've just talked about how I really liked it. What I wouldn't recommend is buying this game at full price - if you can get it for free or heavily discounted, then do it. This game was so hard to actually get to run, it got to the point that I had to play it at low graphics on my AMD laptop because it wouldn't run on my Intel gaming PC. If you look at the community hub for this game as well you'll see the bug reports are several comments long and there hasn't been any follow up from the developers in a very long time. This game seems to have been abandoned, basically. It's a real shame because it is amazing but so many people can't play it or progress in the story because of several problems that should be solved by now. I was lucky I had another computer that actually could play it - a lot of people don't have that option.

In short, the story itself is amazing and the game play is pretty good. I still do not recommend it because of the difficulty I had actually getting it to run. It's current year. This should not be an issue. Don't buy this at full price.
 

🌸 neo 🌸
457 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 May, 2021
Too slow:(
 

Sløth
65 products in account
0
17 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2022
Product received for free

what no father figure does to a mf + the song is better
 

fist
85 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
38.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 August, 2021
Product received for free

I received the game for free and I'm happy that this was the case.
I played it through for all achievements but I really don't get the point of this game.

First the good parts...
Graphics: Good
Music: Good
Story idea: great (if they had followed through with it)
Setting: great

Now to the criticism (spoilers ahead...)
Some people criticised the game because ther is a transgender person involved - I don't see the point.
Apart from some people just being generally ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ by not accepting other peoples life choices, this fact doesn't have any relevant influence on the feeling of the game.

The transgender issue...
1. You could replace transgender in this game with nearly any example of a minority and it would have no meaningful effect.
2. Everyone is understanding and tries their best to not be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ towards the transgender person (I don't really see this happening in a backwater town in the US)
3. Some people go out of their way to not offend the transgender person or to make it up to him because they are embarassed of being impolite and instead of accepting that they are making an effort, the transgender person complains about their awkwardness...

The walking simulator...
1. There is no way to fail. You will always get to one of 2 endings
2. Your choices are irrelevant - see point one
3. The difficulty is nearly nonexistent

The supernatural...
The twins have some really nice abilities but the way they use them, they could just've talked with each other
 

Akaneos
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 20 April, 2024
Product received for free

slow and boring and it's not that fun i got it for free and i still want my money back and life is strange is better
 

gooby1
248 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2023
The game is pretty boring I did gave it a few chances to see maybe the plot gets better but it didn't 🤗
 

Shadan
125 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 May, 2024
Like telltale games but if they were absolute garbage
 

thelolmaster626
101 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.7 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2022
Good story, poor execution. What a drag!
At least, it reminded me what not to do if I'm going to make a story-based game.
 

manishbarik
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 29 October, 2024
Product received for free

3 hours long unskippable gay sex scene

Anyway, I don't mind the agenda. But the story is lacking and your choices don't matter as much.
 

Homokláda333
45 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
18.3 hrs on record
Posted: 29 October, 2021
Sorry DONTNOD, but I felt this was a TREND game in my opinion. Don't get me wrong, I have nothing with gay people or trans people, whatever. I just felt that you gave us Tyler when suddently everyone talks about LGBTQ. Have you thought about this character 5-6-7 years ago? No. I don't like TRENDS, so I don't like that you approached this character in THESE times.
Overall, it was ok..ish. A copy of Life is Strange (was my favorite), but definitely a poor one with better graphics and that's all. The character/voice of Tyler was too childish and tried to be much more like a Life is Strange game... maybe I was expecting a more mature game and nevertheless a different one from the franchise.
Would I recommend this game? If you're a Life is Strange fan, yes, give it a try.
Unfortunately, I don't have a neutral button.
 

Paradise
114 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 26 August, 2022
Product received for free

good game if you can't sleep because it's so ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ boring
 

Dr. House
356 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
14.9 hrs on record
Posted: 4 October, 2024
Product received for free

Don't waste your money on this, it's not worth it, this game is the most boring I've ever played.
 

Not_active
28 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 24 January, 2024
This is a absolute ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ of a game
 

ThatDudeNika
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 16 September, 2020
This is more of a visual novel than an interactive game, but what it does it does supremely well.

It tells the story of two siblings reunited after a whole lot of years, trying to sort out some things before selling off their family home. As with all of Dontnod's games there is a supernatural element in this, too. They can share thoughts and can see memories play out before them and even discuss them since both see it.

Visually I think it uses the same engine even Life Is Strange 1 used, but the texture quality is great so it doesn't look too dated. Sound design is amazing, with nice songs in the background and phenomenal voicework on the main characters in particular.

As for the story or the core gameplay... ouff. This is where the game just falls apart. Sadly I have to revise my originally-positive review. While the game sets itself up great and the chemistry between the two leads is enjoyable, the extreme underuse of the main feature coupled with very flat and mostly automated puzzles just makes for a rather shallow game. By the end I was glad it was over as it was just ... boring, really. The thing is, if they had simply allowed the memory feature to be used ~always, akin to the rewind in LiS1, I think it could have been truly great.

The way it is, it's worth it on a deep sale, but nothing else.
 

Carighan
435 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 4 December, 2023
I love that this story is centered around a LGBTQ+ character but it is SOOOO slow. There are so many long and drawn out cutscenes, often back-to-back, that make this game boring and tedious to play. There are seconds of fade to blacks that make these even longer. Do I need to spend a minute watching a character get off a couch and walk to a picture and gaze emotionally at it? No, I get that there is family trauma, I'd love to progress and learn/play more without waiting for the constant brooding looks and slow dialogues (that have little interactive moments) to end. It was painful to play, even ~2 hours in it never picked up pace. A shame since the premise is good, just something I would look away from until FINALLY I can click a button or two...before the next cutscene.
 

Lizagna
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2024
I dont like the characters
 

abdulgamer43
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 2 January, 2022
why?
 

Zajumc
691 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
14.7 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2021
Bad game, toatally a propaganda. Bad and boring characters (except Allyson),

Tylee a very unlikable character, a girl who wished to become a boy and acts like a boy, felt in love with a gay black man..., Whatever.
 

Brandvsbrand
1,078 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
17.9 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
I tried on several occasions to get into this game but could barely get past the intro without my attention being drawn elsewhere. It's just the definition of cringe.. and I liked life is strange.. this is just not it. It feels hastily written where the sibling relationship doesn't feel authentic. "hey sis" "hey little bro", if you catch my drift.
 

DreamyWitch
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 28 October, 2023
Product received for free

Repulsive protagonists. Wanted the good ending but suicide is not an option 0/10.

Only "played" chapter 1. Possibly this gets at least mediocre later on, i just dont care anymore.
Playing the blamegame with hateful persons... You can do that on reddit too. At least there you have the options to tell them off.
 

Trapper
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 16 April, 2022
Very and I mean very boring
 

SolThaMan
495 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Posted: 21 September, 2024
5.5
 

Avokkrii 死
1,096 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 August, 2024
Product received for free

Too slow, linear story. Stopped playing at 13% of the game because of boredom.
 

Araiq
2
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2022
Product received for free

wasnt that interesting
 

King_Artemis0432
97 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 February, 2023
The script is terrible I mean who say things like that in real life sure I want to finish the game but is just to much they try to hard Life is strange is better is more better script then this garbage
 

Adam5294
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 March, 2022
no thank you I'd rather keep it a secret
 

beatstar
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.4 hrs on record
Posted: 6 July, 2024
Product received for free

life is strange was far superior than this ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥
 

PODDA
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 18 January, 2024
Product received for free

How can I be homophobic?
My ♥♥♥♥♥ is gay
Hit man in the top
Try see a man topless, even the stick is gay
Huggin' my bruddas and say that I love them
But I don't swing that way
The mandem celebrate Eid
The trap still runnin' on Christmas day
 

tofutofu
251 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
18.0 hrs on record
Posted: 29 October, 2024
It had a potential rich twist and turn in terms of the story; but there's a big "question mark" the choices you make in the end doesn't really matter due to there isn't really a good choice, where the end game was weak in terms of wrapping up the story. I guess this is one of DONTNOD's subpar titles; play there other games instead this is a miss in the devs side.

Rating this:
3.7/10, 2.1/10
 

dassh99
429 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
15.7 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2020
no meaningful choices.. lame characters.... way too short.. boring power.... horrible puzzles...and the ending was stupid as hell.. just buy ANY of the life is strange games if you want a impactful and meaningful story that is better in almost every way except graphics.
 

SneakyReggen
389 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2024
Product received for free

Slow story. I thought it was a game but really just a story, but great graphics.
 

dswags92
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.0 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2023
Soap opera.
 

AtomSymbol
287 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2022
Product received for free

There's a reason this game was free. I would have been real disappointed if I'd paid money for it.
 

brukaviador
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2021
Product received for free

I've played 2 hours and the story is still tedious, shallow, boring. Life is strange was way better. Glad I didn't pay for this.
 

WeaponX
272 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 20 January
Looks good visually but the story is boring. Very boring.
 

maitreya
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
23.7 hrs on record
Posted: 20 December, 2021
Revisiting the mystery and demons of the past sounded very cool, Unfortunately it turns out, it wasn't all that interesting.

PROS
-Gorgeous graphics
-Diving into topics few games ever do

CONS
-When you scrape away the mysteries, it turns out its just regular family drama.
-Tyler being a transgender was a miss opportunity to dive deeper into the subject.
RATING: 5/10
 

TISH
264 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 23 March, 2021
The gameplay is boring the story is messy
This kind of plot is cliche you know, just making a game about transgenders and wining lots of awards its obvious the story writer himself didn't know what he wants to show so he brings a mixture of everything
BTW i know all of the endings and played until Chapter 1
 

Erfo
1,343 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
13.1 hrs on record
Posted: 30 September, 2020
This game solved my insomnia.
Life is Strange 1 - Story about love, friendship, connection.
Life is Strange 2 - PC shoved down your throat along with hovering and doing chores around the house
Tell Me Why (LiS3) - Over-the-top absurdity and cheap plot mechanics which leads to a very predictable end... oh and chores around the house.

It doesn't matter if this game is good or not. Send a message to DOTNOD by thumbs down and low sales. Show them we admire their good writing, not the political agendas and cheap tricks.

PS. FFS, fishing? really?!
 

Stoopy
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 13 September, 2021
The first game in my over 20 years of gaming to make me fall asleep while playing because it is so boring. Bought the game on sale and I still regret getting it because I can no longer refund it. I recommend watching the playthrough on youtube, if you really wanna bother. This game is very linear and isn't reallly all that interesting.
 

Skipper
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 September, 2023
Product received for free

the story is bland and the unexpected twists lead to nothing crazy this story is more white family problems rather than something actually interesting not worth playing
 

0utlaw
90 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 January
Maybe a nice idea, but also an incredibly boring implementation.
 

Revolus
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
total waste of my money, and i got it for free
 

binka
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 20 August, 2023
went throuth the first five minutes and realised this is not for me, and probably for a lot of people too
 

Ferchis
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 11 October, 2024
Product received for free

Got it for free and gave it a try. But time is money and i would not recomend investing neither on this game.
 

Hartsi
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 26 April, 2024
looking to get a bad and boring game? buy this one
 

steve
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 12 January
The developer behind this game, the topics it focuses on and the generous price of 0 dollars told me why I should try this game out, the visible exhaustion of the developers making the same type of game over and over, the story that brings nothing new to the discussion and comes of as bland and generic and the boredom I experienced while playing this game told me why not to.
 

Lasman
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 3 January
its ok. dragged suuuuper hard, by the last ep i really didnt care about HOW the story went, just wanted to know what happened lol. only 3 eps, and imo couldve been 2. not as exciting as the obvious comparisons (LiS, Detroit) story wise to me. im sure it would have more impact for a transgender person, but tbh i doubt it would be a lot more.
 

gleb
101 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
¡Devuélvanme mis $0.00! El juego es 'gratis' durante junio. Lo que no te dicen es que es gratis solo la primera parte, el resto las tenés que comprar y, si me preguntan, no vale la pena. El gameplay es extremadamente lento así como la trama argumental, se mueve tan lento que resulta extremadamente poco atractivo. Los diálogos no son para nada interesantes y se sienten como relleno. De partida se puede ver que muchos de los diálogos están puestos forzadamente para generar algún lazo entre los protagonistas y el jugador, además de ser muuuy incómodo, por un lado Tyler tiene esta personalidad de niña de 14 años en Wattpad y Alyson simplemente parece no caerle una idea de cómo tener el mínimo atismo de socialización. No lo recomiendo y no pagaría el resto de la historia, considerando que cuesta 20 dólares (cada episodio)
 

pão de dogão
1,056 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 December, 2022
Product received for free

It's honestly boring, and I gave up on the first episode I think I stopped caring as soon as they started complaining about a hunting sticker on a truck and tried to act like the guy who owned the truck is evil or whatever bs.
 

Alexis
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2021
Product received for free

There is no LiS in it. In a way the game lacks some meaningful mechanic or a system like we could have found in the LiS series. The memories just didn't do it for me. Story itself, was quite boring for me and that is hardly ever a problem for me. I know that this type of games is pretty specific on it's own but I loved all of the LiS (OG, DLC and 2) and would have been gutted to say the least if I paid for it.
 

inflexik
94 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 July, 2024
Glad I got this for free, because I would have refunded it. I love games where you can make choices and the emphasis is on the story, but man, this was so boring.

There weren't many choices to be made, or at least not as many as I was expecting.

I don't care about the fairy-tale theme crap. Neither of the main characters are interesting. From what I have played through, the reason for the murder seems dumb. Overreact much?

The only things I liked were that you could skip the puzzle for the door, and that there was an intriguing twist a little into the game. But it doesn't really make much sense the more I think about it, which I'm guessing is the point. I don't care enough to find out though. Won't be finishing this.
 

Fatal_Ignition
73 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
15.0 hrs on record
Posted: 14 July, 2022
played this because tyler is trans and has the option to pursue another dude. i thought they handled the character very well but of course i can't speak from experience as a cis person.

i believe they could've delved deeper into their power. it's only used as an investigation tool to push the story along. speaking of which, some parts of the story are forgettable. cutscenes you've already seen are unskippable which is frustrating when you're trying to find collectibles. i wouldn't play it again. also spent way too much time reading the goblin book and feeling mildly disturbed at how mary-ann depicted her own children and the father twist in the end. we never really get a complete picture of who she was even though that was a huge part of the story's motivation.

it was all right, mainly good just because it has a trans mlm protagonist which is extremely rare outside of indie games. story was a bit of a mess. frankly, i wish they spent more time polishing and fleshing out the dichotomy of the twins' motivations and personalities. it didn't feel like enough. game had some beautiful scenery though, reminded me of life is strange by the same developer.

i would recommend this only if you're interested in trans representation in a video game narrative. otherwise, go play life is strange instead.
 

kakacat
255 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 31 July, 2022
Positives:
- The scenery is wonderful
- The details are stunning, for example drawings in the childhood book, items are well designed
- Physics of the game are mostly good

Negatives:

- The transgender bit is a bit too much cliche and the story takes almost a comic turn when all of a sudden all these random transgender themes are being discussed and forced upon the player

- Interaction with objects is horrible, the player model has to be coming from a specific angle and stand still in a very specific position just to be able to grab a item from a table which also makes the game a pain in the ass to play

- The difficulty is weird and jumps from absolutely obvious things which can be solved in a split second to riddles which make no sense even when solved and can take several minutes of guessing which slows down the game

Overall it was a decent game, especially if you grabbed it for free there is no damage in playing it, but I would never pay for this game, and would be much more demanding if I did so. It was fun goofing around for a few hours with friends while playing it but it is definitely nowhere near the best story based games you could get like Until Dawn, Last of us, etc...
 

S.
48 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
14.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2024
Product received for free

Tell Me Why... No seriously... Tell Me...

I'm probably about to upset an entire fanbase, but I'm going to be honest. Tell me why sucks..
This "game" tells the story of two twins who share memories with a "mysterious" past, that only happened ten years ago, which they seem to be covering up. Yeah who doesn't remember their mom trying to shotgun your brother, only to kill your own mother by stabbing her in the back with a pair of scissors, and then lying to the cops about it. Who wouldn't remember that?

But as players of the game you learn about this in a very unnatural way, especially because you are playing as the two characters. Oh hey we have twin powers and we can communicate without talking to each other "Hey do you remember this?", "Oh I remember it differently", choose which memory we are going to use. Frankly I couldn't give less of a crap because these are very vanilla characters, hiding under a "woke" mystique. "Oh Tyler use to be a little girl, and they transitioned and now they go by Tyler." so it feels like they are just hiding behind this cloak to get good reviews, because it would be wrong and bigoted of you to hate on a game with LGBTQ representation. Because everyone is so scared of saying something that will "offend" the snowflakes of this generation. Well I'm sorry honesty is the best policy and slapping the woke bumper sticker on this just so people won't call your game bad is cheap.

My issue with Tyler is not that he/she/it is a trans character, my issue with Tyler is that there is ZERO charisma and nothing that actually makes for a good character. The same can be said for Alison the other twin. I don't see a "mystery" in a game where the characters have ALL of the pieces, and then pretends to lose them. Not a great excuse for going around town harassing everyone. Your mother who you refer to as "Mary-Ann" which is extremely awkward, chases Tyler with a shotgun and gets stabbed with scissors, ten years ago, I'm afraid I don't need to know anymore about this. I fell asleep more than once over how bland and uninteresting the story is.

At least with Life is Strange you had the "rewind" mechanic, fighting against the clock. "What are we gonna do, the world is falling apart but I have to save my best friend from getting killed." so you rewind time to save your best friend, causing reality to collapse around you. Which is a interesting concept, unlike oh I don't know, NOT REMEMBERING WHEN YOU KILLED YOUR MOTHER TEN YEARS AGO. So now all you basically do is fall asleep and spam interact with the scripted scenes.

So the main reason I completed the game was for achievements, and the plot takes a nosedive from chapter one, not that I thought it could get any worse. The LGBTQ is so apparent and in your face, every building you step into has LGBTQ representation and there are maybe ten characters of importance where half of them fall into this category "Oh Jack that is such an anti-gay thing to say!" to which I say, they are used as PROPS. They are there to tell you that you should be worried about telling everyone around that you are trans because it would take a "lifetime" to "educate" them. It's so dismissive, and it seems to be part of the "liberal agenda" that shines through in Tell Me Why. You have to be out and proud, and tell everybody constantly. Everyone is fighting their own battle, no one cares.

The game also didn't really offer that much variety in terms of gameplay, some mini games like catching fish, or how you are too stressed so use your de-stress app thing. Honestly my favourite part about Tell Me Why is the book of goblins. Its a book Mary-Ann wrote to teach her kids valuable lessons through stories in a cryptic fashion. The stories are interesting and helps with the overall world building, unfortunately this is not why you play a game. The story book would have a much greater use in the story book realm, you use it to figure out puzzles, of which there are just a few. That might be the biggest part that you can actually call a game here.

Oh but wait... The ending is a total poopooshow. So throughout the game Alison and Tyler prove to be unreliable narrators, they remember events differently and its up to the player to decide which memory is going to be your "truth". The final choice is between Alison choosing to believe Tyler when he said their mom was going to kill him or choosing that he is misremembering the event before stabbing her in the back with scissors. This is the final nail in the coffin of Tell Me Why, giving the player this false idea that choosing what to remember and what happened will somehow change the outcome. Given the fact that the twins already figured out that their mother had already confronted a guy at the docks with a threat to shoot him, and they are just conflating the memories. The reality is Mary-Ann was then ostracised by the community. With Mary-Ann dead it's easy for the townspeople to twist the narrative, and thats the good ending. You are supposed to believe what people told you and build a false narrative to protect yourself, so you can live happily in the present. If 1+2=3 but everyone says its 4, then you have to believe its 4 right?

This game goes so far off the woke deep end, it is frightening. If this is what people consider as good storytelling these days I have no hope for the future of gaming. I give tell me why a 3 out of 10. Get it on sale or let someone else waste their money on the game for you if you truly want to experience the game for yourself.
EDIT:For some reason steam finds it offensive if I use the poopoo word, so I edited that part.
 

Jack_Rabbit
514 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 21 December, 2024
Very stiff and unnatural facial animations + voice acting.

The story seems very transgender focused, which might be interesting to others, just not my cup of tea.
 

Deep_Vegan
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.1 hrs on record
Posted: 16 December, 2021
It got my interest, but I didn't like it. The sceneries are probably the best part of this game, but anything else just meh. Story could be better, controls smoother and etc.
 

Bocchi-chan
928 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2023
Trash
 

Yalusta
53 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 13 January
to slow plot building
 

riti01.exe
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2021
awful, just awful
 

SilverFox435
859 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 22 January, 2023
good thing it was free. Hands down the most boring game in the world and i was actively looking for a story based game. I could hardly make it through the first 5 minutes before closing the game. Insanely boring. instantly found Tyler to be annoying enough not to play after 5 minutes. The dialogue unbearable no pun intended also the graphics look bad on very high with 3070ti/ryzen 7 5800x
 

OneEyedReaper
20 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
6.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 June, 2024
o nah
 

Spooky
17 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2022
Sure sad story, just feels like it’s dragging on. I feel like sentimental games are only great if you can appreciate them.
 

turnip
233 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2022
not a fan tbh, i think its a cool story and stuff but i just really dislike the game's mechanics. It feels like its trying to be life is strange and failing at is lmao
 

Tsyakon
35 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 14 May, 2022
worst facial animation and gameplay
 

Pacifist_106
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2021
Waaay too slow for my liking, that bloody unskippable boattrip in the beginning was just painful enough for me to dump it.
 

Lanfear
508 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2023
The story is kinda boring, I don't know why they have super powers??? and the puzzles are stupid, they don't give you any idea of where to start and the gameplay is disappointing.
 

Freyr
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.1 hrs on record
Posted: 23 July, 2024
The game showcases the unrealistic tolerant small town of Alaska. Everyone is unrealistically tolerant, even a hunter with a pickup truck full of guns doesn't have a problem with the main character being a child who killed their mother and changed their gender. And besides that, the rest of the plot is crap with no clear motives or explanations. And your actions have no consequences here. The worst interactive movie I've ever played.
 

rafobitro
44 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2020
I really wanted to enjoy this game, I loved Life is Strange. And I thought this would have the same vibe, but wow they made having powers connecting twins boring. It was such a good concept, you know they should have revolved the game around that concept more. Maybe I didn't play long enough, but everyone watching with me for movie night fell asleep. didn't blame them.
 

FallintoMadness
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
Really liked the art style and it looked like when it started there was great potential for some deep characters. But after playing most of the game, had to give up on it after realising just how biased you'd have to be to believe these were good characters and a decent story - would like it way more if it were based on real events or if the characters had souls. 2 hours is enough for me.
 

AustereEngineere
656 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 November, 2024
If you are not into a very sappy "gender change" related stories, then I don't think this is for you. I just didn't feel the connection to the main character and had to drop it in less than 2h at the specific point when the main character became very defensive about his gender identity. I mean, be you, but don't be a ♥♥♥♥ (especially when the other party clearly tries to apologize to you, albeit in a clumsy way). I know it goes both ways, but it needs to start somewhere. If he is not going to make an extra mile, nobody else will, and he will always feel misunderstood and unwelcomed. I honestly thought the game would be better, and this whole gender change part of the plot will be a good addition to some solid psychological story. I'm disappointed, but mainly because I had different expectations.
 

Pastor [PL]
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
85.6 hrs on record
Posted: 27 September, 2021
Boring
Cringeworthy
Illogical
Bad writing
Waste of time
 

karac madness
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
6.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 September, 2021
Boring
 

Decypher
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
19.2 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2021
Nice story, but really poor, stereotypical presentation of touchy subjects verging on cheap propaganda. Non-heterosexual characters are annoying, obtrusive and not likable. Well done putting people off.
Very impressive graphics. Especially people, but with unlimited FPS some animations are noticeably choppy (constant FPS).
Game using A LOT of CPU and GPU when paused or ALT+TABBED wasting electricity like crazy.
No way to skip/fast-forward cutscenes when starting game/chapter again. Can't wait them through while doing something else on another screen because game pauses when loses focus on ALT+TAB. Especially annoying because I have to exit the game when taking a break because of using so much resources even when paused.
 

ffrreeaakk1
1,059 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.9 hrs on record
Posted: 23 July, 2023
Product received for free

There were some really cool scenes, and chapter three was honestly pretty good and enjoyable, but it doesn't make up for how pretty bad and boring this game is. I love Life is Strange, and that game often had me questioning the choices I made in a very enjoyable way, but with this game I felt my choices had pretty bland consequences and didn't matter very much. I am also the type of player to try to explore all my surroundings in a game, but there was so much to look at that I feel like didn't matter at all and just felt like a waste of time. Chapter three was actually pretty good and especially had some cool scenes with Alyson at the beginning. I actually felt interested in the story at that point, but I wasn't for the majority of chapters 1 and 2. The fact that the characters can't run kills me a little bit and makes the game feel so slow, especially while going back and trying to get missed achievements. One aspect I will applaud, that a lot of cutscene-heavy games I've played don't have, is the ability to skip cutscenes. It saved me a lot of time while I was replaying to get achievements.
Overall, I would say it's a below-average game that I wouldn't recommend paying $20 for. I don't think the ending is good enough to justify how many boring and mediocre scenes it takes to get there. I would only recommend it if you get it when it's free like I did.
 

your_least_favorite_friend
86 products in account
0
17 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 22 May, 2022
Red flag if you call your mother by name instead of "mom".
 

spiritworld
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 23 July, 2021
Gay propaganda
 

"żwiras
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 27 October, 2023
0/10

trash
 

yort
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 6 July, 2024
I am homophobic.
 

St. Pablo
62 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 10 July, 2023
I think they forgot to put in a game in this propaganda and ideology pushing machine. I play games to have an escape from reality not be thrown back into it.

Don't make the same mistake i did thinking this is going to be like Life is Strange 1 and Before the Storm. I can tell you it's not the same thing.

I am done with this developer.
 

Setorrs The Lollygagger
750 products in account
1
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2022
The story writing is just cheap and trashy, and many times just doesn't add up. The story drags on and the gameplay is boring. Only reason this game was made is to bring attention to trans people...
I wanted to give it a try and by the reviews I was pretty excited going into it, but the 1st cutscene already ruined the experience. It's free but I wouldn't even bother
 

StaroBrno
88 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
4.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March
Na hře mám 4 a půl hodiny, z tohož jsem se 4.4 snažil zjistit, očem že vlastně ten příběh je. (Pokud ho ta hra teda vůbec má.)
Jediný na co klade hra důraz je to, že hlavní postava je trans a že všichní mluví o tom že je trans, zmínil jsem už je hlavní postava je trans?
Hra upozadňuje příběh upřednostňuje tuto woke zápletku. Neříkám, třeba ta funkce s těma vzpomínkama je cool jak svině, ale když zbytek hry je jenom o pohlaví a LGBTQ+, tak se to ztratí.
Nic proti LGBT nemám a nevadí mi to, ale když kvůli tomu zanedbávají příběh, takže většina dialogů je na principu. "Ajooo, ty jsi trans, a jsi trans a já nejsem trans, ale ty jo." Pls be quiet lidičky, slovo trans nemusí být zmíněno v každý minutě hry.

PLUSY:
Zajímavý gameplay
Grafika
Nějaký mechaniky jsou fr originální

MÍNUSY:
V KAŽDÝ MINUTĚ HRY JE KONVERZACE O TOM, ŽE HLAVNÍ POSTAVA JE TRANS
HRA NEMÁ KVULI TÉTO VĚCI ANI PŘÍBĚH (Skoro)
 

HeroNix256
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 October, 2023
Product received for free

The story about transgender, homosexual and people dealing with past trauma and anxiety... And that is about it. The story IS interesting, but the characters are so boring like everyone lived in isolation and has social anxiety issues, and I mean ALL CHARACTERS. This makes the whole game boring and the interactive parts are a slog from the uninteresting interactions and comments outside of the puzzles. At least the story was kept interesting by the main plot line about the "Princess" that is revealed later on in the game. The fishing mini game was the most entertaining part of the game, 
 

Blender
83 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 19 January
I was expecting a game more like Life Is Strange. The puzzles were so lame. I thought at least the story would be good and emotional, but I was disappointed. Wasn't worth my time.
 

YourSenpai
93 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
29.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 October, 2024
As the story evolves it gets more interesting
 

paullie38
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2024
Product received for free

Tell me why
 

Concealed_
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 30 July, 2024
Product received for free

... ain´t nothin´ but a heartacheeee
 

hanasgamingwelt
43 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2023
Game kept crashing, and when you open it again it goes all the way back to the start and you can't skip the cut scenes until it crashes again.
UNPLAYABLE!
 

RAPTOR JESUS
569 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2023
cut scene after cut scene, which cannot be skipped and maybe 15 minutes of any game play in 2.5 hour long chapter.
 

Blade
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2024
Product received for free

Overrated. twins explore the house where the trans one killed his mom. They can talk to eachother through their minds. basically everything that happens.
 

Matiss7
8 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 January, 2024
I will be honest here, I haven't gotten off the ferry yet in this game before it became too insufferable to continue. The dialogue just feels... off? There is really poor pacing and the voice actor on Tyler speaks without much feeling, almost monotone. Just reading off his script, nothing more.

I like DontNod and this company has such nostalgic feeling games that I can't but love them, despite their flaws. However this game just doesn't do it. The nostalgic feeling their games are known for was present in this game, and it made me push through some of the early dialogue, to no avail. One example about how off it feels is that they are a brother and a sister that have been separated for ten years, whilst obviously sharing a past they feel like complete strangers AND like they have never been separated. When they first meet again outside of the (I assume) mental health institution, they are both pretty constrained, not knowing how to interact with one another. And that's fine, that's fully understandable. You have been away from each other for ten years, you do not know each other as well as you used to. But then, as soon as they start talking they suddenly start acting like best mates. If you make your characters start off shy and restrained, don't make them suddenly do a 180 and make them very comfortable around each other. The ferry could've been a nice moment to explore what their dynamic could be, and how they can reconcile after all these years. Instead it is wasted on wish washy nothingness? It is lost potential of a very interesting dynamic, of two siblings bonding after a shared traumatic past.

I wouldn't pick this up, it doesn't have the DontNod trademarked feel, it rather feels like you are listening to voice actors saying their lines in the mic instead of in-game characters communicating with one another. The pacing is off and the conversations are just weird and feel unnatural. Can't recommend it, I rather suggest you play your tenth run of Life is Strange.
 

Quintiax
126 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2023
Game play is boring. Choices seem insignificant.
 

58North
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
17.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 March, 2023
weird
 

simoonnn
91 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 24 October, 2022
I havent played many storytelling games but I feel like this was too short or didnt have enough to it. I beat it in seven hours which seems like a waste?
 

Kimburrrly
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2022
Product received for free

boring as hell
 

GPP12312
113 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.8 hrs on record
Posted: 30 October, 2021
Terrible acting and pure annoying dialogs. There are so many better options, stay away from this game.
 

[WGS-B] SirMonky
303 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 22 August, 2021
Meh.
 

G3N3R4L W41T-4ND-533
342 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 August, 2021
this is too ALYSSON!!
 

Nature mfs
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2022
Game was pretty mid. The characters personality's were so flat that I could barley find any substance in what I was playing. The story on the other hand was pretty decent in my opinion but could have been so much better. This game is just not that good.
 

Meko_64
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.0 hrs on record
Posted: 20 March, 2022
This game felt like a big ass chore, focusing around childhood abuse and even the two characters can't remember the past properly if theres always two versions about it. it tries to be a copy of life is strange except for the transgenderism forced into your face, and there isn't even a properly told story.

waste of time do not bother with this.
 

Kai der Brecher KTM Gang 4 Lyfe
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.5 hrs on record
Posted: 4 January, 2022
Product received for free

If you get it for free, it's alright. Go watch this movie-walkthru. Otherwise, don't bother. There are better games out there, and better movies, too.

Tell me why I should play this game
The plot of Tell Me Why seems narrow, the playable characters are caught in a simplistic right/wrong mentality. Choices are no real choices but rather some clicks to push the plot forward. Dialogue options are unclear, and so are the consequences of some actions you take during this game drama. Achievements are unlocked simply by your continuing to play - 'hurray! you made it to chapter II, congrats!' The puzzles are so easy it's exaggerated to call them puzzles at all. The ones at the end are the only ones where you actually have to think (but not too hard,don't get upset ;)

Tell me why I should believe my choices matter
Keep away if you're not so much into political correctness, transgender issues, moralistic behavior, self-righteousness, emotional slavery, and the blame game. After a while it gets quite annoying. Oh yes, environmentalism and ethnic minority issues also play a role, and i think it's a great idea.

Unfortunately, the profundity and relevance of these noble ideas gets muddled by the same ideological claptrap and new woke mentality that seems to be the red thread of the game. I found it difficult to empathize with the characters. They both get offended so incredibly fast (especially Tyler). They get upset for reasons that imho do not justify their 'righteous anger'. Overall, both Tyler and Alyson seem to be inclined to make others responsible for how they feel.

Did i mention there are no real choices? Wouldn't be a problem if the game wouldn't pose as if there were. Therefore, i was sometimes reluctant to continue. But i craved another achievement and i ain't no quitter so i continued - oh how easy it is to be manipul8ed... makes me so angry ;) L0L

Tell me why it's still worth giving it a try
Ok, seriously now. What's good about the game? Well, first of all I got it for free which is as it should be cuz I'd never pay for this tbh. Another argument to play is simply cuz it's a DontNod thingie. Because it's beautifully crafted, graphics are impeccably polished, details are a pleasure to behold. And because i had a good laugh when the biggest manipulator in town calls his father a manipulator. Hilarious, really, and sad, since in his narcissistic attitude he can't fathom the irony of the situation.

Btw, I am the 0% that believes Tom's side of the story.


∑ummary
☀☀ Graphics persuaded me to continue
☀ / ☁ Political correctness sensibilization / indoctrination
☁☁☁ Definition of walking sim with make-believe choices-matter punchline
☁☁ Linear plot progression
☁☁ No Trading Cards


systemspeck
i5-7200 CPU@2.5GHz | 8GB RAM | NVIDIA GeForce1050
 

ℌคᛕٱ๓ѻ๓คՇคՇค
106 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 14 July, 2021
I was fully caffeinated but after playing this for 51 minutes my eyelids got heavy. I'll play more when I'm inebriated.
 

Kite
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.9 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2021
Really boring to be honest and all the characters sound so pretentious. I spend more time rolling my eyes than actually playing the game. It does look really good though.
 

megandays
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
3.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2021
Product received for free

No, you tell me why. Tell me why it cannot have at least the same quality as "Life is Strange"
 

Sir Sir Sir Frankie the Paladin
126 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2021
Heavy Rain for kids with graphics like The Sims.
 

YouPromi
68 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2021
Feels like watching a slow drama series with added supernatural elements in an attempt to make it just a bit interesting.
 

[TFA] SwaggerElite™
308 products in account
3
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 18 March, 2021
Not great.
 

Sean Doherty
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
33.7 hrs on record
Posted: 5 March, 2021
Story wise, nothing to offer, very dull game, options and choices doesn't matter so much.
 

arislaf
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 September, 2020
bored
 

P4RtyR0ck3r
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.7 hrs on record
Posted: 4 July, 2021
Maybe for younger players. Slow and boring.

Even though the topic of this game is undoubtedly important, the game itself is, unfortunately, quite boring and slow. Sometimes, it's also not clear what one has to do..

Maybe it is more apt for young teens. Really annoying was reading the fairy tales.... it simply slows down the whole game and is not interesting.
 

Fürstin des wunderbaren Tals
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2021
Product received for free

After the Life is Strange series this is a huge letdown.

Chapter 3 really tried it's best to save the game, but the previous two chapters were just so ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ bad and boring that i can't look past it.

The only positive thing that i can say about this game, (besides Chapter 3) is that I'm glad I got it for free and didn't have to waste money on it.
 

Patirkajancsi
73 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
waste of time, its almost like a movie where you can every 10min walk and see objects and answer to questions...
 

Gigabyte
0
7 people found this review helpful
29 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 7 May, 2022
This game doesn't have a single Backstreet Boy in it. 0/10
 

K-Niks
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
16.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 July, 2021
Product received for free

This ain't no game because there is no gameplay at all
 

Dovah
202 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 25 May, 2021
tell me why you so boring
 

nightmare
1,027 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 29 January, 2023
so boring
 

MrsStranger
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2021
THIS GAME IS TERRIBLE
on the start game is super slow and extremely boring
skip button don't skip xD
choices have no meaning!
you play as bunch of weirdos asking a old dude about a song you heard 10 years ago
"made with transgender community advocacy group" well next time hire a freaking writter xD
or game designer
also as Natural born ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ i must say Tyler midrepresent all the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ in the world!
he is absolutely worst scum of ass you can find
"yeah i throwed away your ring, but we are still bros dude"
"yeah you should stop asking questions all the time, but jk ask question"
instant back out, real ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ lives with consequences of their actions!
even when you backdown, it is because people never know if you will backdown or mean it, so you build tention xD
but tyler NO, "story rich" tfuu this is so bad
stupid memories and walking simulator with no gameplay is no story rich, its gameplay poor, make a movie or something
game will not progress unless you finish objectives, you can not skip them or ignore....
you have no control, you just walk, follow orders and listen to bad talks
 

SCARaw
435 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 October, 2021
Boring, Brings nothing new to the table. Feels generic. I like the snow. I do not like how boring this game feels.
 

Basan
177 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 28 December, 2020
Boring and uninspired cookie-cutter attempt at bringing back the feel of LiS
 

Minty
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2021
no gameplay , no story , i mean the story is just dont have any meaning its just bad , not even 1/10 its worst
 

predator
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
Product received for free

Graphics were sub par, animations were awful and the story was a drag. It was free but I still feel like I wasted my money on this. There are much better games to be spending your time on than this.
 

Dodo1248
37 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2023
This game/story had so much potential but it fell flat. The whole game is based on the kid’s mom being a bigot and wanting to kill one of the kids because he’s transgender.

The story plays out as the two kids having a horrible childhood filled with joyous memories. Wait…what?
All the two main characters talk about is how horrible their mother was to them but they also talk about the wonderful memories they had growing up.

They go back home to their house where they grew up and were traumatized only to talk about how Tyler hopes whoever buys the home doesn’t demolish it to build something new and safer. He says there are so many grate memories of growing up with a horrible mother who was apparently mentally ill and treated them horribly.

The kids later find out that their mother didn’t care that Tyler is trans but never told him or showed him. This was supposed to be the big twist in the game I think but it doesn’t sit will. If someone loves you, they don’t hide it and make you feel like an outcast. But in order to create drama, the story has to make you think the mom hated Tyler.

It’s sloppy and lazy writing.

There’s a supernatural aspect to the game the story could have focused on instead. The two characters could have spun the story that their mother tried to kill Tyler because she was a bigot while knowing she was possessed by a demon/spirt creature.

The game could have had the two siblings running around trying to find out what happened that night to find out if there is more going on than the townspeople are telling them.

I think it would have been great storytelling if the two main characters were going home to try to figure out really happened with their mom and to stop “the evil” from spreading or affecting someone else.

Don’t bother with this game. Just watch it on YouTube and save yourself a few hours of gameplay.
 

DragonLore2020TTV
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2021
The biggest ♥♥♥♥ show I've ever seen, if you ever wanna sleep just play this and you'll fall asleep real quick
 

DzoNNyy
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 25 September, 2021
Great visuals. But like a slow movie. Very little "game" in this and the plot is not particularly exciting.
 

oceanbeing
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2023
The game is very story based with 90% of the gameplay being only cutscenes. There is literally zero action involved.
Currently in June it is free so I tried the game out and gave it a shot. Normally it would cost 19,99€/$. There are also 2 other chapters to this game that you have to buy individually costing 16,70€/$ each.

The story is based off of two twins who are returning home after 10 years. They have a mother who is seriously ♥♥♥♥♥♥ up in the head. She was trying to force one of the kids to transition from male - to - female. Therefore making him transgender. The game also gives me very leftist and green vibes.

If you like games where you just sit back and watch it like a movie, then this is perfect for you. Otherwise I wouldn't recommend purchasing it.

p.s. Sorry for my English, I am not a native speaker. :P
 

Abdulrahman
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2021
Product received for free

Bad and boring. I am worried about LiS3. Graphics is great.
 

Weiner
993 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2022
Choices do not matter at all, also very lack of adventure feature, this is more like watching a boring movie than playing a game
 

I'll be back
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.8 hrs on record
Posted: 8 September, 2021
If your 12 it will probably be fun.
 

TheLittleGamer
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.2 hrs on record
Posted: 25 July, 2024
too much side commentary and useless tasks
 

ryan0426
44 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 23

Not Recommended
6.4 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2023
Product received for free

I really enjoyed Life is Strange; it might even be among the best games I've played so far. However, when it comes to this game...
Boring dialogues, boring objectives, boring gameplay - it's a boring game. The worst game by DONTNOD. I'd recommend playing Life is Strange instead; it's much, much better than this.
 

i smite canon bandit.gg
167 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.7 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March, 2021
The pacing is slow and the main characters are boring and they seem more like a political statement, than actualy interesting characters. This game feels so much like someone focusing to much on making some statements, instead of focusing on making a good game. Such a shame, as i loved the first games.

I bought this game on a heavy discount. It's not even worth buying then.
 

Nordic
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
13.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 March, 2021
This has the heart and soul of Dontnod, with a very good story, and good atmosphere, without being an overly p.c. (politically correct) game.
BUT
The terrible pacing makes it a bore to play through even ONCE...
 

SSJBrotond
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.7 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
I only played chapter 1 so far, but the story is too slow for me. And it's very confusing to figure out what to do and how to find clues. Very nice graphics though! I hope the other chapters are better
 

Katofrie
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 29 December, 2024
This game is so boring even my gf could not finish it
 

Enactos
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 11 August, 2022
Product received for free

Took me a month to finish this game because of how boring it was
 

Jakie Chan
44 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 November, 2021
5/10
 

Lozzy
241 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 27 July, 2022
Sorry did not compare or fascinating me as much as Life is Strange, did now that was a real good story. These characters seem more like whiny ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ more than anything else. Some past trauma that didn't seem all that serious or took to long to get serious, because I do understand that the beginning or intro cut scene was pretty serious but then after that I was falling asleep. If they did have something leading or developing to a major issue they should have added moments when said problem would intervene throughout the game every so often as the story progressed to said major issue. So unfortunately I quit only after a few hours right when the boy/ girl began asking for his diary. I tried to look at some walkthroughs to see if the game picks up but sadly I didn't see it.
 

blindhunter892
129 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 12 July, 2021
I thought it was a nice game since i've played Life is Strange and Life is Strange : Before the Storm.
But it's not.
I totally not recomand this game, please don't play it.
 

Zickren
236 products in account
3
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.5 hrs on record
Posted: 23 March, 2021
This game is you wishing Alyson would wash her hair.
 

ℭ𝔞𝔯𝔬𝔩𝔦𝔫𝔢
0
3 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
14.4 hrs on record
Posted: 16 September, 2020
Why
 

Drack
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 16 December, 2020
Dontnod, funny how this company makes something as in depth as life is strange and before the storm then pulls a lemon with life is strange 2 and now this nod fest. I am trying to get through what I perceive to be a slow start but the story really struggles to hold on.
It may apply to some with similar experiences to share, like being trans but otherwise its just boring.
 

Asiz
3
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 September, 2020
Boring
 

TravisT
141 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
backstreed boy s
 

dr home
15 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 28 October, 2023
This is so boring. Don't bother with it. Its like someone made a film and called it a video game.
 

drvet
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 July, 2022
soy
 

Sky Bacon
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2021
Can't relate to our high pitched protagonist in any way for obvious reasons. Its a no from me dawg, thankfully I didn't spend a penny on this.

It was free this month for whatever reason.
 

Lancer
0
15 people found this review helpful
12 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 21 May, 2023
Ain’t nothing but a mistake
 

Master Bait
40 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2021
Aint nothing but a heartache

 

Sir Coxlong of Asssag IV
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 May, 2022
I'm not sure if I'll be able to finish this game, which sucks since I usually like episodic/ 'your actions matter' type games. With this one though, the dialogue is so boring, the two main characters can be a bit dull (sometimes I wasn't sure if they even liked each other), the plot moves soooo slow, and the game in general is a chore to play. I'll admit I haven't played that much of it as of this writing, but it feels like I put in at least 10 hours instead of 2. I'll update this post if I somehow manage to finish this, or if my opinions change.
 

kdlqueen
68 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
Product received for free

The twins are annoying and the beginning is painfully slow. However, the story with the mother is keeping my interest so far.

Ep 2 picks up a little bit more but an  at the beginning and  brought it down a little - ep 2 is at least was a bit more interesting than ep 1 was, The twins have their moments here and there but still remain as annoying as they were in ep 1.

Ep 3 begins painfully slowly with what feels like nothing happening for halfish of the entire thing, picking up as it heads towards the end  The ending was ok i guess..

get it while it's free or on a heavy sale because otherwise it's not really worth it
 

Moo359
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
26.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 November, 2023
Historia basica y no es por nada pero Tyler se vuelve un pesado y es insoportable ciertas veces, el juego arranca excelente en el primer capitulo, te deja intriga y una sensacion de querer seguir con la historia. En el segundo capitulo meh, y el tercero ni digamos nada, se siente que fue absolutamente apresurado. Menos mal este juego se encuentra gratis.

4/10
 

Werther
125 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
4.8 hrs on record
Posted: 5 May, 2022
Tyler's annoying as hell
 

maustis
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.5 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2023
It's like a mediocre movie where you yawn constantly but are just barely invested enough to not turn it off
 

veepers
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2023
A step down graphically from Life Is Strange, and the animation was poorer too. Didn't get the same engagement from this - to make a pun 'Tell Me Why I should bother when Life is'..too short
 

trgz
552 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2024
worst chutiya game ever










 

lamhedid123
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2024
♥♥♥♥
 

Alan
201 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 3 September, 2024
Its a walking simulator with a boring story. Maybe more relatable for people who had horrible childhoods, but then why would you want to go over something like that again?
 

MoVe
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.2 hrs on record
Posted: 10 July, 2023
We Should Forgive Our Abusers Guys, They Are Just Crazy (the game)
 

cecotrophy
58 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 16 September, 2021
I was debating whether to score this positive or negative. I got it for free in June and at that price its hard to vote down. At full price i cannot recommend. Life is Strange is a better story and this one feels a little bit woke.
 

DaddyDeano
444 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.2 hrs on record
Posted: 18 July, 2023
I loved Life is Strange. I loved Vampyr. I love DontNod. But this game is Super Woke, pushing an Agenda, and It was miserable to go through. I didn't like the main character, and trust me, i really tried liking the main two characters and the side characters that we saw along the story. Honestly, Sam's first reaction when meeting tyler was the only thing i enjoyed but the rest was just boring. It is nothing like LiS, where I really liked the characters and really wanted to follow them through their story. And it's not because he/him is trans, lol. It's because they are pushing an Agenda, and they cared more about that then telling a great story.
 

902 Loudon Rd Latham, NY 12110
1,075 products in account
1
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.5 hrs on record
Posted: 20 October, 2024
Product received for free

While this game is visually beautiful, I was quite bored. It progressed very slowly and was not attention-grabbing at all. I got the game while it was free. I did finish it, but would not recommend it to a friend
 

Babixnel
27 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2021
THIS IS SO BORING. I yawned like 100 times in an hour or so. Please don't waste your time on this.
 

Slay
60 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 26 December, 2022
Tell me why I should buy this game!
 

raoul
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 17 November, 2024
Plot? What plot?
 

Alex Ted
810 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 19

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2022
Product received for free

Ain't nothin' but a heartache!
 

Uti0n
181 products in account
7
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 March
tell me why install this game
 

f1re
103 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 14 May, 2024
ass
 

DMV_552
34 products in account
0
16 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
The game looks great. You can try the first episode before you buy.

I sort of learned something about myself playing some of the first episode. Tell me why I take any opportunity to play/create the opposite sex, intersex or cross dressed avatars whenever possible, but this game didn't appeal to me?
 

JESShEart
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 April, 2022
So the game is really nice, the storyline begins in a captivating way and there is some nice character development. It tingled some of my emotional strings, exploring my own memories while the characters explored their own.

However, it took me only 2.6 hours to play through it once and the worst part is I have no motivation to replay and make different choices because the series has 3 chapters at this moment and the 2nd and 3rd part are 16 euros each. And more coming in the future?
I do wish it was released as one full game instead of separate chapters which I would most likely buy instead of having to continually purchasing more chapters.
 

Lady Satan
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.0 hrs on record
Posted: 14 April, 2021
Tell me why this game is so boring and badly written.

The characters are so bland, they have no real personality. They always seem so depressed and don't really have a bond. Even their faces are not expressive it makes it impossible to get attached to them. They are both always angry, always sad, always pissed, always grumpy, with a flat emotionless face.

The story is very slow, dramatic and uninteresting.
The puzzles are annoying.
The only positive things was that the game was very pretty.

There's nothing special about this game, I thought it would touch more on the transgender difficulties of Tyler with his mother, but no final answer to that side of the story. They like to start plot stories and then not lead them anywhere, there was several beginnings of side plots that were all forgotten and never leaded anywhere in the story.
Everything is so flat and meh that even the big revelation at the end falls flat.

The choices of the characters in the end on where to stay and where to live felt stupid.

I love Life is Strange and this is nowhere as good at it. It doesn't feel like it was made by the team who made LIS.
Finishing it was painfully boring. I do not recommend buying it.
 

luvcie
754 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.0 hrs on record
Posted: 3 July, 2023
Product received for free

this game proves that beauty isn't everything the voice acting acting and story is OK at best but everything about about this game is straight ass
 

hershizle90
181 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 28 October, 2023
pros:
- вайб маленького містечка посеред лісу

cons:
- нелогічні фінали сюжету
- тупі вибори які дуже неадекватно впливають на сюжет
 

Asgard
1,866 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 23 September, 2023
i used to like this game until in chapter 3, a freaking glitch happens in which i cant progress through the game.
watched the rest of the game on yt cuz i was too hooked up on the story ;-;
 

auicy
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 3 February, 2023
Product received for free

Tell me why does this exist?
 

¡Viva Mantequilla!
594 products in account
1
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2021
Do you like being beaten over the head with political commentary? This is the game for you.
Like Life is Strange 2 but without the actually interesting parts. The Super power is boring, the facial animation is lifeless.
 

Goomy~
421 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 22 July, 2021
Product received for free

Boring
 

korytoombs
201 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.4 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2021
Product received for free

There are a couple of entertaining moments, mostly revolving around the 'goblins' and how the duo remember their childhood. Aside from that the visual novel masquerading as a game has unlikable characters with whiny and petulant attitudes and is overly preachy in regards to one of the protagonists needing extra special treatment because they are a gay man trapped in a girls body and isn't that extra special? News Flash: It is neither all that special nor all that interesting. I tried to finish it but ultimately the game failed to make me care enough about what was happening to make me want to force myself to sit through another cringe inducing scene of having to put away store inventory and stock shelves while getting hit on by a dude with as much metal in his face as a Cenobite. :trainbowbarf:
 

The Rickest Rick
78 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 May, 2023
4/10
 

JC Denton
386 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
[Intro]
Hey! Look at me!
I'm sitting here peckish and hungry!

[Verse 1]
Without a sheepie
But a desire
To not hear you say
"I don't want to be gobbled!"

[Verse 2]
And I see da sheepies walking
Along one by one
And I never wanna hear
"I'm not ripe and tender!"

[Chorus]
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a famished wolfykins with rage!
Tell me why
I so need some comely lamb chops!
Tell me why
I never wanna hear you say
"I don't want to be ensnared and devoured!"

[Verse 3]
And I have no nibbles
But a desire
To not hear you say
"I don't want to be voraciously gnawed upon!"

[Chorus]
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a famished wolfykins with rage!
Tell me why
I so need some comely lamb chops!
Tell me why
I never wanna hear you say
"I don't want to be ensnared and devoured!"

[Bridge]
Why do all of the other wolves
Catch all of the plump lambs? (Yeah!)
You may not notice
But I want you to know
That I am a grumbling tummy!

[Verse 4]
And I have no nibbles
But a desire
To not, to not, to not
Heeeaaar…

Stuck as a wolfykins without gobbles!
So need a comely lamby on my platter!
I never wanna hear you say,
"I don't want to be gobbled!"

Tell me why
I'm stuck as a wolfykins, peckish with rage!
(Tell me why)
I so need a comely lamb this day!
(Tell me why)
I ain't ever wanna hear you say,
"I don't wish to be gobbled!"

Tell me why
I'm stuck as a wolfykins, peckish with rage!
I so need a comely lamby with sage!
(Tell me why)
I ain’t ever wanna hear you say,
"I don't deign to be gobbled!"

Never say it, now!
 

Cardinal Wolfykins
40 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2021
Glad I got it for free.. otherwise for me it's a total waste of money. Here Choices doesn't really matters at all. Characters has no depth at all. I never got a connection with any characters. Nothing interesting or intense moments on the story. All the chaos are just started for a simple little stupid confusion and that's all. FULL WASTE OF TIME.
 

SamTheRival
38 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 29 July, 2022
Product received for free

Other than weird choices on camera shots, such as a close up of drinking, that clearly shows the lack of reality, I have nothing against the game.
Deleting it because I didn't realise it was an XBox game and I won't support their monopolistic centralisation of the games industry with any further engagement after this review.
 

Jenshae
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 8 January, 2022
As a Life is Strange fan I tought I would really like this game. But damn... it's really boring.
 

.GunsNHearts.
186 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2021
Quite boring ...
 

Emeralth
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
lame
 

`_`
86 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 March, 2021
Dontnod have a talent to build their whole games about a narrative, and at the same time have that narrative be complete piece of dog waste.

While not as disastrous as whatever the hell LiS2 was, this one just wasn't good either. Pacing is once again awful, even more panning shots of silence, even more "flavor" dialogues that taste like tap water, even less choice with consequence, and even less at stake. This game despite featuring a transgender protagonist is not immune to criticism, HELL, I'd say it's worse that their representation is realized in just a really bad game.

Since it's a Dontnod game, we had picking up groceries in 1st ep, instead of collecting bottles, what a "welcome" return of the dullest sections in their games. All locations feature the objects that your character just looks at and comments in the utmost obnoxious and obvious ways. Nothing of value, just like way back when I played LiS1. I almost couldn't believe that terrible formula didn't change at all.
Between that and dialogues about constant reminescing (also featured in all of their ♥♥♥♥♥♥ games), you get choices to make (that are compared to choices of other players), which will give a different animation, dialogue, at best a different scene, mostly of no real consequence. I literally can't believe that the devs decided to devolve their gameplay ever since 1st game, Sands of Time rewind in an adventure game was the only thing setting that apart, that and a cop-out of an impactful choice resulting in character's death, or survival (if she survived, you got just one scene with her near the end, phenomenal, ground-breaking).
So in LiS2 and Tell Me Why, such a big thing is not there at all, neither a real mechanic, or a choice of similar level. In both you decide the ending in the last episode, just like you can decide to be a communist mass murderer in LiS 1, in order to save your selfish waifu.
Here you get to decide, the events of the past? It's weird, but the characters power is remembering stuff wrong, and then deciding which is right (sometimes it's just simply wrong, without a choice). They also have telepathy, nothing original with it, they just can communicate over short distance, instead of needing to whisper to their ears.
The characters are also once again ranging from annoying, to dumb, to surface level, to literal straw-men, to walking contradictions. You can only get snippets of good things about their writing, in the bigger picture - they're just tools, whose personality is just their member berries about the past they can't stop spewing throughout the game.
Funnily enough, the locations on later episodes are reused all the time, and also the siblings here are represented by goblins, copied from sibling wolves in LiS2, really makes it feel all the more fresh.

The sounds are there, nothing special, you will 98% of the time just hear yapping. Music is ambient, mixed with the alternative bands copyright stuff sprinkled here and there. Once again, very original, never before done in their game.

The visuals is the only thing I have real praise for, the improvements are huge. The face textures finally don't look like a muddy PS2 mess. Animations are better, environments as well, probably mocap was used, since faces are the most striking difference during the playthrough.

So, I played 1st ep for free, saw rest of the game on playthroughs online. Anyone can play the first ep really, see what they think about it. Rest of it is definitely not worth the money, seeing it done 3rd time in a row, really makes me think that LiS 3 will once again be cut from the same template, with once again - nothing worthwhile added.
BUT - most importantly, I would rather see next 1000 copies bought of Tell Me Why, than see another one purchase of LiS 2.
 

Shuvack
2,219 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2024
Product received for free

No.
 

Hope Destruction
132 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 11 October, 2023
too boring
 

R35
0
10 people found this review helpful
20 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
played this to kill a few hours before work, unfortunately it was so boring that i fell asleep at my desk.

i slept through all my alarms and this was my last strike for being late so i got fired.

thanks
 

sprinkles ⋅˚₊‧ ୨୧ ‧
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
If you loved the life is strange games, this isnt for you. This game is not what I expected it to be at all. Great graphics and nothing else
 

mouz.sequal ッ
316 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 20 July, 2022
Product received for free

Im not gonna cap I got this for free but I dont even think its worth your time regardless. Awful, awful dialogue. Probably the worst Ive seen of the genre. Weakkkkkkkkkkk voice talent. Graphics are pretty and it runs smooth though
 

KEVIN LEVIN
193 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: 25 January, 2022
Product received for free

I usually love episodic, and story rich games like these. I didn't realize that it was LGBT+, but I thought I would give it a try.

This is by far the worst story game I have ever played. It is painfully slow, and all of episode 1 is nothing but sorrowful story behind the premise of one individuals sexual identity. 












 

Banisher
458 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
75.0 hrs on record
Posted: 28 May, 2021
The story moves very slowly and the game has got a few technical glitches that are hard to overlook
 

soundofjello
210 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2022
Que merda
 

idk
49 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March, 2021
Very Confusing story and quite boring characters
 

PsychoUnit
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 5 January, 2024
Product received for free

It's just ass...
 

ZackDj289
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 August, 2024
to be fr this game is so ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ boring dont buy
 

I have A U T I S M
59 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2024
game looks good but has a very slow story pacing, 1hr into the game and absolutely nothing interesting happens ... A lot of useless interactions and dialogs and "lecturing" (about protecting environment, animals, etc.)
 

moby vyk
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2021
Okay graphics.. really slow. Weird.
 

Zachita
130 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2024
i had a very hard time as a disabled gamer i was using the mouse and keybord its mostly point and click so why cant you just point and click needlessly always must be online to save i felt like i was watching a movie not playing a game and i grew up with pint and click game
 

magik88285
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 December, 2023
As much as I wanted to love "Tell Me Why," I can't ignore the glaring flaws in its storytelling that ultimately overshadow its visually appealing graphics. The game's stunning aesthetics draw you in from the start, but sadly, the narrative fails to deliver on the same level.

The plot feels contrived and lacks the emotional depth I was hoping for. The characters' motivations and actions often come across as forced, leaving me detached from their struggles. The attempt to explore complex themes falls short, and instead of engaging with genuine emotional weight, the narrative feels like a checklist of clichés.

Moreover, the pacing is inconsistent, with some scenes dragging on unnecessarily while others rush through potentially impactful moments. It's as if the writers couldn't decide on the tone they wanted, resulting in a disjointed and unsatisfying experience.

The dialogue, despite attempts to tackle serious issues, often comes off as forced and unnatural. The characters' interactions feel scripted, preventing any meaningful connection with the player. The lack of depth in character development makes it difficult to empathize with their struggles, and the dialogue choices, which should enhance the experience, often feel inconsequential.

Despite these narrative shortcomings, I can't deny the game's visual excellence. The attention to detail in the environments, character models, and animations is commendable. The graphics create a visually immersive world that is unfortunately let down by a lackluster narrative.

In the end, "Tell Me Why" is a prime example of a game where style triumphs over substance. While the graphics showcase the potential for a memorable gaming experience, the weak storytelling diminishes the overall impact. It's disheartening to see such a visually stunning game fall short in delivering a compelling and engaging narrative.
 

ThinkOn
0
12 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
Mental illness: The Game
Annoying protag, cutscene simulator.
Visuals are ok, environments are nice. Steps leaving marks in the snow is also nice.
Lost potential for nice adventure/point'n'click in 3D game.

If you want countryside/small town setting and similar visuals level but with actual gameplay and without annoying propaganda i recommend Alan Wake.
If you want 3D adventure game i recommend Obduction, with downside that it's practically solitary exploration.
 

Arier
102 products in account
7
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 July, 2022
Woke stuff.
 

Zardo
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.1 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2022
just plain boring, 90% of the gameplay is just doing chores.
 

st. Valentine
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 December, 2024
dreadful gameplay, wouldn't recommend even for free
 

Nello
182 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 20 October, 2024
dialogue is so bad i rather just go to bed
 

Waifu
129 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 6 February, 2022
Having dialogue so bad is a grave sin for any story game. There are better options out there, don't waste your time on this one.
 

Starscream
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2021
Product received for free

very boring for my short attention span
 

msleanbean
56 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2022
don't get it, its ♥♥♥♥
the main character is really annoying
I'm getting rid of it
 

ArbiterRokz68
99 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.7 hrs on record
Posted: 27 August, 2024
Takes too long to load for each chapter...

Maybe my laptop is getting too old for this game which needs 2GB of data?!?!

My laptop is 5 years old i mean the processor.... I just found a way to figure out the details of this laptop....

Any suggestions?

I just decided to delete a game because that game might be making this new game slow to play???

Kind Regards

Amy Walker.
 

BakersQueen
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 23 February
I tried to enjoy this game. But, the intro having one of if not the most boring watch the characters move weirdly as they talk for what feels like 20 minutes. I just can't enjoy this game when there's just so little game play. The trans character plot line felt rushed and forced. When, the game brings up the trans group all I could do is let out a are you serious right now. The trans hair cut, the trans voice, and sluggish intro that hurt the game just keeps me from ever enjoying what could be a good story.

I do enjoy point and click narrative stories. I still do. But, this stories pacing is just to slow to get any excitment from.
 

TheSpiderKing
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.6 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2021
it is good representation of a lot of mental issues but the game itself is slow and not a lot happens. there is no real arc and very often it looks like they went with the lazy route in terms of both storyline and animation. all in all not a bad game but not very good either
 

Silly goose
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 26 September, 2021
It is boring. Nothing really happens.

They litter a teddy bear on the highway within a couple minutes into the game.

Has good graphics.
 

Shunmasan
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2024
Tell me WHY I always have to be online to play this game...
 

J4y
1,986 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
9.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 November, 2023
This game is terrible even for FREE.

I've completed it and it was a chore! The game is very slow and very boring. A slow-burner - also should really be called a film and not a game because of how little actual game-play there is and how little control over characters you get. However I decided to finish it as the plot was promising. With some supernatural elements in the game I hoped for at least half-decent (if not really good) story. Well I was waiting and waiting until ending hit me in my face. What I got was a boring, predictable story with terrible ending.

More details of my thoughts:
- Game consists of 90% cut scenes and 10% actual game-play (more or less) and actual game-play is...
- Actual game-play is so slow! Characters do everything super slow! They talk slow, they walk slow (there is only 1 map your character is allowed to jog - everywhere else you just slowly stroll), they look at things slow. My god this was so annoying and the worst part was that...
- You cannot skip anything! You cannot skip whole cut scene and you cannot even skip a dialogue line. If you accidentally click on the same answer you have to listen to everything again! This is just terrible! Sometimes when I want to speed things up (usually when dialogue bores me) I read subtitles and skip without character finish talking. Here you cant skip anything.
- The Game is full of stupid, dull and unnecessary tasks which only add to slowness of the game. For instance you need to manually count products on the shelves or you have to bring few objects to NPC even though it would be 100% faster for him to just grab it as it is 5 meters away from him.
- I read some comments that the game speeds up after chapter 1. Believe me it does not! It is super slow from beginning to the end.

In my opinion it was all done on purpose. The game's plot could have been a 1 or 2 hours journey. So the developers tried to prolong it every chance they got. Everything is slow, unskippable and the game is full of dull, unnecessary tasks! And it still ends in few hours

- The worst romance I have ever seen in any game. It is so lame to the point it is pathetic. And guess what you cannot skip any of it you have to sit there and listen to this no matter how much you do not care about it. You have to watch how they look at each other sloooooowly and share their deeeep thoughts. Luckily you are able to turn down your date at the end but... Come on! He is still forced down your thought to become your best friend even tho he was a complete, annoying do*che
- This game tells you that choices matter - this is a lie. Choice does not matter. Tell me Why pretends choice is significant but in reality it does not affect the story and just slightly alters the ending (well not even ending itself - only relations between characters). The choice in this game only comes down to few pictures and words at the end of the story about each character and imo can be ignored. It is a game on rails you will just go with what is scripted. You cannot even chose not to go on the lame date.
- Invisible walls everywhere you go!
- The story is promising with the supernatural elements and interesting characters. You wish all the gameplay there will be something interesting some twist but at the end you realise this was supposed to be another tearjerker that failed to jerk even one tear.

AVOID like a plague. There are better film-like games out there. Much better!
 

the.waves.of.time
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 August, 2021
Product received for free

Apparently proper controller support is beyond the development team.
 

toodedicated
0
3 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 September, 2021
Two siblings have a schizophrenic adventure after killing their mother
 

Crack Addict
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 14 October, 2021
no
 

unknown
270 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 23 March, 2022
no
 

BDM
14 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2024
This game is horrible, the game crashes every 44.6 seconds on linux, And something about Tyler does not sit good with me. I'm not homophobic, but the way he smiles at me breaks the 4th wall in ways that make me uncomfortable and unfathomed. This man, he make a me so mad >:(. (I just have a feeling he looks better without the moustache and the beard. btw. I think his hair would be better growing up)
 

Robin_5TB
0
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
15.9 hrs on record
Posted: 28 February, 2023
Imagine being the geniuses behind the two masterpieces that are Life is Strange and Life is Strange 2. And then you release this massive pile of steaming hot garbage.

Obnoxious characters, soulless music, uninteresting and senseless story.

What a pity.
 

l'Elfe
0
7 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Graphics are amazing but the story is pretty dull, I might even go as far as to say this game is cheesy and pandering to an audience that probably has better things to do than play video games. This should be a TV series or a movie or something. I don't really see the point in making it a game. There's no risk/reward here just a self-aggrandizing waste of time.
 

fractalcosm
0
55 people found this review helpful
13 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Cringe
 

Suffocation
846 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 23 February, 2023
bad
 

Westphalen
774 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 5 September, 2021
Product received for free

+ Nice graphics

- Boring story
- Boring, unrelatable characters
- ...who only refer to their mother by her first name (arseholes)
- Forgettable music
- Incredibly slow-paced, nothing happens for hours on end
- Hardly any gameplay, just a bit of walking and endless tonnes of characters talking.
- No run button, characters walk slowly, with an (occasional) option to move even slower
- Boring memory mechanic, easy to skip accidentally but mandatory to progress
- Choices don't feel like they carry any weight.
- Very underwhelming reveal.
- The final choice was just insulting.

Life is Strange was a fluke.
 

Jimmy Nova
89 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 27 November, 2022
BAD GAME.
 

☭ MiniRiick ☭
20 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 21 November, 2023
Product received for free

It is bad.
 

Rainchitect
61 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2022
Worst game ever , bad story
 

narcisggxd
38 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.7 hrs on record
Posted: 7 January, 2022
Just boring and stupid characters
 

Haisu
708 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 11 June, 2021
Product received for free

damn this goblin kidz, tom did nothing wrong. xDDD
this story is just bad it could be a netflix movie.
no reason for ty dude to be a trans, it just left a bad taste in your mouth.
but yeah, it fits 2020 ♥♥♥♥.
i can only recommend this product to a non hetero audience.
the good thing is, this ♥♥♥♥ is short and its over soon.
playing this game is like torturing yourself. omg i can't even be happy about the fact that this ♥♥♥♥ was for free.
 

-tantalos-
237 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
17.0 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2024
Tedious, boring likeness of LiS.
you can't skip the stupid moments like in the 1 chapter, where two siblings stay on the ferryboat. Illusion of choices.  Tyler's voice actor is emotionless person, whom gave a piece of paper and he tried to read the script. Other charecters have pretty nice voice and express lively emotes.
 

July Fish🐠
416 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 16 July, 2021
Product received for free

basically in the first 25 minutes you actually need to move or do something for 1 minute of that

this game is very much like life is strange and I pushed though that game to see why so many people liked it and I found it sucked and so far this game has basically the same vibe except at this point something had actually happened in life is strange so really I have no motivation to continue this game
 

Mineswee
911 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 17 January
They gifted this I don't know when in June, and I took it to have it in collection. Tried for an hour, it was ok, but not good by any means. This is a story-driven game, walk, interact with the space and hear the characters talking. If I say it like that, sounds like it's a bad thing, and no, I played a lot of different story-driven games, I don't dislike this mechanic. The problem is, as a... well, in a respectful way... a heterosexual man, the game always reminds me that the story is for trans people, my conscience is always telling me that fact, so I can't play it, I don't like it, it's not for me. That is about it, it's for trans people, maybe for everyone too... to know what trans people have to go through to transition but genuinely I cannot care less. Sounds like it's my problem and yeah, and for whoever reads this, if you don't like anything about trans, or something else, don't play this game. If you are a trans, then I heard this is a very good game. In the end, I can't say the game is bad because I don't like it, therefor It's just... that the game is not for me, and that is pretty much clear.
 

Salo
50 products in account
1
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 18 March, 2021
I like games that make you think. This one looked like it when I saw it in my recommends. Sadly, it didn't turn out to be the case. The game pretends to be devoid of stereotypes and claims to be made by people of various backgrounds and have been consulted with real transgender people and so on, but sadly that doesn't seem to be the case.

The main character is the usual obnoxious individual on a high horse. The game tries hard to portray him as the good one, but ends up making a stereotype of them. The "I'm right about everything but can't realise it's not all black and white and can't realise I'm being obnoxious" kind. The sister is the "I attract and date jerks" stereotype (stating so herself). Carrying on with the game, I'm introduced to a "gun control bad, drink beer, shoot things, rednecky" stereotype guy. I didn't make it past that. Excluding the police officer at the beginning, who wasn't really introduced, I'm counting 3 stereotypical characters out of 3. I didn't have the stomach to continue.
 

Overlard
624 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 31 August, 2024
Product received for free

its boring, just because it goes for free every year doesn't mean its worth it
 

Player1
45 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2023
worst game ive ever played lol
 

handsome male gamer
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 February, 2023
Product received for free

boring game where you cant softlock the game and lose progress
 

Peasant_Patrol
35 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.5 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2022
The Sky changed colors from day to night. Alaska only changes day and night schedule every 6 months. Beware...
 

Kapy
177 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2024
Oi anomaloi kai ta psixologika tous
 

Jimfrag
84 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2022
Product received for free

[Intro]
Hey! Look at me!
I'm sitting here sad and lonely!

[Verse 1]
Without a fire
But a desire
To not hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"

[Verse 2]
And I see da ladies walking
Along one by one
And I never wanna hear
"I have a boyfriend!"
[Chorus]
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a virgin with rage!
Tell me why
I so need a cute girl my age!
Tell me why
I never wanna hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"

[Verse 3]
And I have no fire
But a desire
To not hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"

[Chorus]
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a virgin with rage!
Tell me why
I so need a cute girl my age!
Tell me why
I never wanna hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"

[Bridge]
Why do all of the jerks
Get all of the pretty girls? (Yeah!)
You may not notice
But I want you to know
That I am a lonesome heart!
[Verse 4]
And I have no fire
But a desire
To not, to not, to not
Heeeaaar…

[Chorus]
Stuck as a virgin with rage!
So need a cute girl my age!
I never wanna hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a virgin with rage!
Tell me why
I so need a cute girl my age!
Tell me why
I never wanna hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a virgin with rage!
I so need a cute girl my age!
I never wanna hear you say
"I have a boyfriend!"

[Outro]
Never say it, now!
 

funne
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 16 June, 2022
I would appreciate this game... if it wasn't trying to shove crap down my throat. I regret downloading this game even though it was free.
 

Dead Sammich
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2024
Nice visuals
 

love chucky
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 25 January, 2024
Story and characters are crazy. Not recommended.
 

kf543
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2024
Great game IF you could skip all cutscenes and yada yadas.
 

Mauri Kiduttaja
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 September, 2021
Meh
 

AstroAss
1,062 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2021
It is boring
 

Dzovanamen
24 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.7 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2021
Really bad story. The game was NOT fun at all.
 

GexideL
700 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 26 July, 2024
I'm all about good story games, but this game is just boring. The story of all the world spinning around the transition of that girl is just uninteresting.
 

RavKxK
113 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.9 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2023
GEN-WOKE, Though few aspects of the game were enjoyable still don't wanna play this game again

My scoreP: 6/10
 

AVER
64 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 30 October, 2024
Boring
 

schizodonkey
38 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 3 November, 2024
Product received for free

It's so boring, in my opinion; it's just cutscenes and walking around.

Ninety-nine percent cutscenes and one percent gameplay—man, it isn’t even gameplay.

It’s just cutscenes, followed by walking around to trigger a new cutscene, and then the cycle starts all over again.

Dude, I want to play a game where I can actually play and not just watch.

I didnt even really play the game that much but if it does have real gameplay then yay but i am NOT gonna waste my time to reach the real gameplay.
 

Chip!
27 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
12.3 hrs on record
Posted: 27 October, 2024
Product received for free

Even if it's free, it still costs you time. And this game is just disrespectful to player's time. Game has been stretched way too much compared to what the story has to offer.
 

KodenejmBerni
97 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.8 hrs on record
Posted: 14 October, 2024
So I got this for free but why is Tyler a whiny prick? I cannot get into the story and empathize with him if he is just an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ to everyone
 

CapyBaraLord75
146 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 August, 2024
you finnish it in 2 hours
 

ReSivec
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 7 July, 2024
ew, ♥♥♥♥♥♥
 

Rowen
349 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 3 July, 2024
Product received for free

Painfully slow and drawn-out dialog that is boring to sit through until you get to actually interact with the game again. Very linear progression that hand-holds you so bad a 4 year old could do it. Puzzles aren't really puzzles. In a room with many objects to look at, once you hit the trigger one (even first) that starts a cut screen, most times you can't go look at the other things there. Long times in-between auto-saves without an option to manually save in the event you have to stop playing/lose internet etc which reverts back to the last save. In my case I was where Tyler meets the guy with a beard in the old house when I had to stop for work... can't remember how far back the last save point the game did was.
 

Relligar
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2024
Product received for free

very good
 

Progamer_YT
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 28 April, 2024
Super slow start, god bored of it
 

Sergi
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 August, 2023
Game won't even launch without an internet connection? WT actual F??
 

tcortese
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.7 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2023
literally so boring like omg pls rather kms
 

Dorine
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2023
Product received for free

The story had such great potential but it was just really bad and boring
 

Tifa Lockhart
47 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2023
Product received for free

---{ Graphics }---
☐ You forget what reality is
☐ Beautiful
☑ Good
☐ Decent
☐ Bad
☐ Don‘t look too long at it
☐ MS-DOS

---{ Gameplay }---
☐ Very good
☐ Good
☑ It's just gameplay
☐ Mehh
☐ Watch paint dry instead
☐ Just don't

---{ Audio }---
☐ Eargasm
☐ Very good
☐ Good
☑ Not too bad
☐ Bad
☐ I'm now deaf

---{ Audience }---
☐ Kids
☑ Teens
☑ Adults
☑ Grandma

---{ PC Requirements }---
☐ Check if you can run paint
☐ Potato
☑ Decent
☐ Fast
☐ Rich boi
☐ Ask NASA if they have a spare computer

---{ Game Size }---
☐ Floppy Disk
☐ Old Fashioned
☑ Workable
☐ Big
☐ Will eat 10% of your 1TB hard drive
☐ You will want an entire hard drive to hold it
☐ You will need to invest in a black hole to hold all the data

---{ Difficulty }---
☑ Just press 'W'
☐ Easy
☐ Easy to learn / Hard to master
☐ Significant brain usage
☐ Difficult
☐ Dark Souls

---{ Grind }---
☑ Nothing to grind
☐ Only if u care about leaderboards/ranks
☐ Isn't necessary to progress
☐ Average grind level
☐ Too much grind
☐ You'll need a second life for grinding

---{ Story }---
☐ No Story
☐ Some lore
☐ Average
☑ Good
☐ Lovely
☐ It'll replace your life

---{ Game Time }---
☐ Long enough for a cup of coffee
☐ Short
☑ Average
☐ Long
☐ To infinity and beyond

---{ Price }---
☐ It's free!
☐ Worth the price
☐ If it's on sale
☐ If u have some spare money left
☑ Not recommended
☐ You could also just burn your money

---{ Bugs }---
☐ Never heard of
☑ Minor bugs
☐ Can get annoying
☐ ARK: Survival Evolved
☐ The game itself is a big terrarium for bugs

---{ ? / 10 }---
☐ 1
☐ 2
☑ 3
☐ 4
☐ 5
☐ 6
☐ 7
☐ 8
☐ 9
☐ 10
 

JustACogInTheMachine
34 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 21 January, 2023
bad story and dialogue
 

paulh3272
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.3 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2021
eh, pretty boring to be honest. but it looks very pretty.
 

repressed.potato.salad
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 March, 2021
Slowwwww uninteresting gameplay, predictable and not worth full price.
 

Coldkiller2313
257 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2022
Product received for free

The slowest, most boring conceivable delivery system for woke propaganda.
 

TriggerPuller9000
0
19 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
1 word: yikes
 

아줌마
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 12 July, 2024
Product received for free

the game is trash and has nothing to offer...
 

EMAM
39 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
62.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2020
Your choices do not matter much in this game. It is much slower than LiS, and so far, it is my least favorite from DONTNOD. I would buy it knowing full well what to expect first - that it is a slow, atmospheric, melancholy game. Lots of "busy work" to do, as could be expected with a walking simulator. Coming here after having experienced Quantic Dream's Detroit: Become Human, it was too slow and lacking enough depth for me. But that's my personal opinion. This game will appeal to others, it just didn't quite do it for me.
 

ribbonized
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 December, 2023
Game that is focused on Character being Trans, instead on story. Story isn't that bad, but is rushed and could be much better. Also this powers main duo has is so stupid idea I can't really understand why it was did this way. It's free like every year in June I think, so don't buy it, get it for free, that's fair price for what you get.
 

Chrzanu
341 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
17.7 hrs on record
Posted: 21 June, 2021
The 'Tell me why' game really shines in the last episode. I felt the same feeling from this episode 3 as I did from their legendary 'Life is strange' game. Except for the part "where a girl becomes a man and then gets attracted to other men. Then why did you even bother to change gender. XD". Episodes 1 and 2 had little to no human interaction. If they had not given the game free I would have never played more than episode 1 and if you are looking to buy the game I advise you not to. On the bright side 'Tell me why' has some mind-blowing graphics and places to just look into the far for hours.
 

Raf
81 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
96.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 April, 2022
Ok, that scene in the storage room where I threw cuddly toys at another dude. To me it was one of the worst writing Don't Nod has made since they make games.

I struggle to go through the acting and stiff animations, very bland secondary characters visuals, like that girl at the reception of the police office just to name one.

This is the first game that I feel the writing gets worst as the story goes on.

I have many Gay and Trans friends and this does not feel like the characters are real, it feels forced and badly written.

I loved Life is Strange 1 and 2 stories and acting and visuals, but it feels like this team is getting out of original ideas and the quality is reminiscent of that other Team that bring us Life is Strange : Subtitles. I am not looking forward for their next games.
 

Carl Sagan
0
9 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2024
literal worst game i have ever seen, the must woke thing ever. I got it for free and want a refound
 

DrB1g
184 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Loved Life is Strange and Before the Storm but this game is just boring.
 

thedopeson
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
15.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 July, 2024
♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ SUUUUUUUUUUUUCKS
 

dinosabrus
32 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2024
Product received for free

stu
 

BarBlack420
40 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
Awful characters, bad jokes. Wants to be another Life is Strange fails terribly.
 

Hold The Door
138 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2023
someone tell me why
 

alexcool667
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 25 February, 2024
Too Slow
 

Jopey
162 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2024
Boring game
 

Grumpy cat
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 28 October, 2021
I loved "Life Is Strange" and still love it... but Dontnod Entertainment have become a part of the propaganda machine after that (or didn't I just noticed it when I played LIS?).
Well, in Life is Strange 2 and Tell me Why you get indoctrinated with the typical agenda and all those first world problems.

But when I play games I wanna escape from the reality for a while... so these games aren't my cup of tea.

I had to stop playing LIS 2 and Tell me Why after some minutes.
 

Mr. Turtle
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.8 hrs on record
Posted: 18 June, 2021
The game feels as if made to service the needs of the LGBT community in the beginning, with slow build-ups and a general sense of wasting time, being served irrelevant options that moreso define your character as opposed to influencing the story. Life is Strange suffered from many of the same issues, both the original release and its sequel Beyond the Storm, but their stories revolved around more than mere sex transformation, instead at least trying to draw you into something darker and more concrete, touching on real issues. The quality of protagonists seems to be deteoriating with each release from Dontnod, no matter the praise received. Unnecessarily long dialogues and segments that make no sense from the get-go (why'd there be a puzzle to solve to permit entrance into any adult's chamber again?), Tyler and Alyson apparently being supernatural with their ability to communicate in the way they do, and all for nothing.
Good luck with the upcoming Life is Strange, Dontnod. Make it more like the first and less like this. <3
 

American
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.9 hrs on record
Posted: 11 August, 2022
Get this game free all ??? why i dont have Chapter 2,3 all that chapter ?
 

Ivan
99 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 July, 2022
Too boring and stupid, sorry, NOPE.
 

MunchieS
293 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 August, 2022
It was a difficult decision to choose to recommend this game or not, as I think it could be very enjoyable for specific players.

This is less a game, and more a storybook with high-end graphics. The story is fixated on a controversial topic - and when I say fixated, I mean strongly. I don't mind if a game wants to include such topics (say, Dragon Age with contemporary sexuality/gender choices available), but this game throws it in your face left and right, up and down whether you like it or not, and you are forced to support it in the storyline. Perhaps the writers want to help others understand the real struggles of people facing gender uncertainty, but it comes across like they are trying to shove it down your throat, much like the those of the conservative or religious POV. I have no opinion here for or against this topic, but if you play this game, this is something you ought to be prepared for.

There is basically no gameplay in this game (like Detroit: Become Human). The *story* is more-or-less fixed, and the most you will be is some puzzle solving. Your dialog decisions don't have much actual impact.

In conclusion, if you want a book with voice acting and really nice visuals, this might be the "game" for you. Otherwise, I think most will find this to be a slow-paced, near-zero-gameplay, game with a controversial theme overpowering what game merit there is to enjoy.
 

bspratt1611
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
29.3 hrs on record
Posted: 19 September, 2024
It's like a Telltale game but without meaningful player decisions and every major plot point is written to push a social justice narrative about identity politics.
 

Spud
731 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
a crappy Life is Strange clone
 

speakwithout
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 March, 2022
horrible game
 

raprapghost2
275 products in account
1
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2022
nah
 

naberhausrose
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 May, 2021
The story was flat there wasn't much substance. The intro rolls into everything with drama and action, then it runs out of steam. No pun intended.
 

The_Expidition
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2023
Wow, that was horrible. "Tyler" and Alyson are easily the worst written and unlikeable characters that this studio has put in one of thier games. But I had a good time making fun of the bad character development and story telling.
 

Hoopty ᛟ
405 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2021
I really wanted to like this game. And I really did like this game. Except for the game play. Which is why I don't recommend this game. It's not a game. It's all cut scenes and nothing else. I liked the story, though for it not having any gameplay sure made it apparent past the basic plot, so much more was just left out. Like, why did Brown keep her from going to a theatre program? Why is this info dropped on us to never be brought up again? Who knows!

I really wanted to like this, but it seems very apparent no effort at all was put into game play. And without that, I just don't think it's worth the price.
 

Caligirl90
447 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 April, 2021
Slow
 

Μεгlιπ
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 November, 2023
Product received for free

Should have read description properly
 

ahmark55
19 products in account
0
25 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.7 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March, 2021
Game for those who love wars, big government and transitioning kids.
 

Karma
920 products in account
3
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 26 November, 2021
amongus sus
 

Csgoskins
22 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 14 July, 2022
Jumbled mess of a game. Glad it was free
 

Chunky Cheese
227 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2024
started of good till it switched to the second person then instantly genZ cap so uninstalled right there in the spot
 

Duck
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March
Product received for free

I just wasted an hour of my life on doing nothing but watching a cringe compilation
 

Eden
188 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 12 March
This game is just a movie. Don't bother.
I'd rather play Minecraft Story Mode than this
 

SPR0UT_82
32 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 22 July, 2023
Pathetic pandering. No reasonable person will feel engaged with this story at all given the setting. just... skip this one and play a better narrative story such as the walking dead or really anything from telltale... without the BS and lame attempts.
 

Camowns
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
18.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 September, 2024
Product received for free

A narrative/story/plot driven by lies, confusion, uncertainty and illogical choices. Clearly, the developers were driving home a point by these concepts and then baking the whole narrative/story in numerous sets of "dialogues" and "actions" to justify the concepts. I'm not entirely sure what the driver was behind this?



Seriously, both the developers and players need to "think" BOTH sides of the story/narrative as well as the choices AND consequences of all actions. I can't understand how this game ONLY delivers one side of this idea and completely ignores the other, and then comes across as "the story knows it all". The next time you look at a coin, remember it has three sides.

Sorry, can't recommend this game solely on a one-sided narrative/story and its delusions. I finished the game solely for achievements. As for the animations, menus, collectables, music and interactions, these were all good. Loading times and transitions were short/quick and achievements straight forward. Your decision if you want to go down this path of game-play type/plot.
 

Voyager2
531 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2022
Meh.. boring
 

F L Ξ X
119 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 5 May, 2021
Yeah no nonononononononononononono Puke
 

[TPPL] King Leonidas
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 26 September, 2021
Spoilers ahead.





Boy oh boy, another Life is Strange game, but this time they already poked a hole through the bottom of the barrel, there is literally nothing left.

LiS: Turn back time
LiS2: Wind powers
LiS two brothers: One ages & the other has poltergeist powers when angry
LiS colors: A person knows what Empathy is.
Tell me Why: The ability to remember. (Added bonus of talking to the only twin with your brain.)


This game has an intense parts however they are not intriguing, more of misleading.
You have the ability to remember stuff in detail. but hey, sometimes your memory is not correct... oh boy. and you're trying to remember weather or not your mother tried to kill you.

Do your choices matter? nope! in the end you literally decide what ending you want. the game was way to predictable, I called the ending from the beginning in call with friends, I even solved the puzzle by literally saying "Moose, bear, Goose" thinking I wouldn't get it but I apparently that's the ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ answer.
I found the diary instantly, the only trouble I had was getting into the house, I was just blind for that moment.

The "Problem" of the game. the main problem of the game is circled around Tyler, the Trans kid. of course. it wouldn't be a LiS game if it didn't have anyone from the LGBTQ, not that it is a problem, it was just predictable.
My problem with the game is not him being trans, but the way they try to represent him as a trans and how it goes along with the game, and it does not quite tie to the ending of the game. (does not need to but hey, character arc is a thing and I believe they just failed to show it.) It ends up like any Netflix show, they (Insert here 1 gay person) and their entire character is just gay. Same for Tyler, He is a trans kid, every argument or sentence has him being trans of some sort.
Which is understandable through some conversations but bringing up in some scenarios is just weird and out of place.
Not only that but when they found the book "How to raise a trans kid" I'm sure that's insulting to some, but others can see that she actually might have tried, and they got angry at it
"What the ♥♥♥♥? my mom is trying to understand me and what I am going through? this is ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥!" pretty much how it is.
The worst part of this, is when they go outside and you're stuck there for five minutes looking at mountains

The entire game is just trying to find your deadbeat dad who left the mother to her two kids who hate her because mommy said "No"
then trying to remember which ending, (You decide since choices don't matter) either she was trying to shoot you for giving you the spiky anime hair. or she was just trying to tell you that she was going to shoot herself in the barn... with a shotgun... so the kids can hear.

TL:DR
Choices don't matter get ♥♥♥♥♥♥ lmao
Super power is rubbing to brain cells together
Deadbeat dad shows up & leaves to get milk again.
first character: Enabler.
Second character: Trans & main attention however still unlikable
No character arc.

I give this game a too/boring


A small thing unrelated to the game, as I was writing this, I saw my cat chase the chonkiest mouse I have ever saw irl.
and that was the highlight of this gameplay.
Now I need a name for this mouse.
 

Skelebro Joe
230 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2024
In those whole 4 minutes of intro I could have cooked some meth
 

Lucas
702 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
26.9 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
Product received for free

Boring. Not as good as Life is Strange
 

its_FrankieT
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 20 February, 2023
Absolute trash. 100% if you want to waste your time, play this.
 

Semicon
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
♥♥♥♥♥ boring as ♥♥♥♥ the acting is so painful who the ♥♥♥♥ would buy this
 

roobscoob
129 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 May, 2022
i enjoyed life is strange but that was at least interactive, i couldnt get past the unskippable dialogue so i quit 10 mins in
 

Lekmaisaq
0
10 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2023
Saddly the game has no relation to backstreet boys ... only lgbtq but i guess they WANT IT THAT WAY.

Game has nice visuals but is booring af. Cant alt tab out to watch smth else, skip, or basically anything cause the game immediately pauses itself forcing you to listen to child tantrums and mediocre conversations with ankward pauses and pacing. The drama feels quite forced at times but i guess its the type of the game so...
 

Koalacola
5
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2021
I was surprised to see this game, why? - Because not once, did I hear about it. And hey, this comes as strange to someone that -loved- Life is Strange. So, hey. I gave it a shot. And then that's when it shot me. This game's story is not that interesting, to me personally. The animations also seemed off here and there, and the characters when at least I looked at them, didn't show much emotion expect from mouth movement. The LGBT parts of it also seem as if they were forced in there to cater towards a certain demographic, but I can't blame them, gotta earn an extra profit somehow. Either way, if you want a free game, bust some time if you're bored, and go through a story that might or might not be interesting to you, play it. For me otherwise, it was an honest flop.
 

SunsetLotus
186 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2021
Too politically correct.
Only got it because it was free.
 

Alteatron
107 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 3 August, 2024
trans propaganda+boring story+ tyler is corny + tyler has bad voice acting ( sounds like a 13 yr old)+ choices dont matter
 

Vladimir
103 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2024
black fart matter
 

fweetfweet96
45 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2024
game bad
 

FireFox_459
188 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 22 February
There's a reason it's free...
 

Nossiko
242 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 29 September, 2021
im transphobic thats why
 

ur dads pocket pussy
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2022
its ♥♥♥♥
 

Atlas
180 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2022
Ain't nothing but a mistake
 

Just Snow
305 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2022
Product received for free

boring
 

Natea1gya
0
14 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 2 September, 2020
Product refunded

The story is pretty slow and doesn't really offer much. The conversations had between players feel meaningless and the overall backstory on the characters isn't very appealing.

I wouldn't recommend this game for these reasons
 

Danny
1,742 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2024
This is such a bad story game. I played up until I completed the store section with the crazy Bible study lady.

It's about these twins who went through a traumatic childhood, at one point their mother dies. One of the twins is a trans man and believes everything surrounds about him being trans, gets offended about anything and everything, is constantly on edge and is ultimately annoying and difficult to deal with.

The twins have a superpower which makes them able to talk to each other with their mind, without actually talking, and they can find memories and witness them together.

They try to find out why their crazy mother lost her mind at her final days and if it had anything to do with one of the twins being trans. "I thought my mom wanted to kill me because I wanted to be a boy." They investigate places to find out the truth.

The dialogue is awkward, unnatural and badly written. The conversations are so unrealistic, it made my eyes roll quite a couple of times. A lot of items in-game can be inspected and the twins will talk about it, their reactions to stuff takes way too long and I don't care in the slightest.

Out of all the story based games I played, this is the absolute worst I have ever played.
 

LoveInHell
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 March, 2023
i ain't reading all that
i'm happy for you tho
or sorry that happened
 

Kamen
938 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
13.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 January, 2024
Product received for free

I was surprised when suicide wasn't an outcome in any ending.
 

MartizPvP
60 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2021
boring game in general
 

Rikachu07
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.1 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2023
Nothing happens. Boring... yawn... play Danganronpa or life is strange (or literally any other video game) instead
 

David333
140 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2021
boring story
 

Marcin
182 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 28 March, 2021
Very boring, Should be called Tell Me Why: This game exists
 

DIIZZII
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 July, 2021
Really boring. First thing you do is watch someone throw things into a trash can and then search for house keys. Really?
 

djdesu
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
i played the game for a little more than a hour. I was super excited to play this since i loved life is strange, but this wasn't the same. The art was really beautiful but i couldn't get into the story. there is Trans hate just to have trans hate, and it is completely absurd. they make it out that the mom tried to kill her because she cut her hair. i really did try to continue which is why i made it a hour, but i couldnt. i wouldnt recommend it to anyone i know.
 

Knitew01f
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 1

Not Recommended
11.3 hrs on record
Posted: 4 September, 2022
This game is very slow and boring and the climax is lackluster. Life is strange is refined trash, but this game is straight trash. There's no fun to be had in it being a bad and lazy game. The characters are extremely mediocre and have no real personality. The puzzles last way too long for my liking, and this wouldn't be a bad thing if this game was an actual puzzle game. Tyler's voice acting just really sucks.

This is a horrible game, and can't be enjoyed even in a laughable way.

Do yourself a favor and save some money.
 

Aub
278 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2021
Boring game
 

dantaz ツ
8 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 20 July, 2022
Product received for free

Just a woke paperback chicklit, but with fancy graphics.
 

fvsslo69
2,032 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 31 May, 2024
no
 

Anekis
95 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.4 hrs on record
Posted: 5 February, 2023
If youre looking for something similar to life is strange... I have bad news. It's not bad though, but also its not masterpiece. I really wish to rate it as "I don't know if I would recommend it" I like storytelling games, but here, the gameplay is dull.
For me, the most frustrating thing is that we will never know the real truth. We're deciding what is the truth. It's interesting way of telling the story, but maybe not for me. Especially the ending. I choosed more confortable decidion, but deep down I'm unsatisficated with this story. Not telling about the absurd of this murder... We have only notes and memories. The second option is cool, but notes... ok. Reading 39084 notes to find out a lot of things it's too much. I was expecting better storytelling that: here you go, read this letter and this and this and you have your plottwist
 

gejfrut
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2023
A trash game from trash devs who insult and lie to and about their customers, refuse to fix bugs, don't know how to troubleshoot problems and ignore their tech support forums or questions. Beyond that this game is boring and disgusting.

I couldn't quite figure out, from what I'd read, who was what in this game, lol. Since this was at the beginning it's not a spoiler.

It appears the game is about two sisters. 10 years in the past, when they were 10 or 12-ish, maybe, one of them decided to cut their hair short, went home to show their mom while mom was waving around a gun (no idea why), then stabbed mom to death (again, no idea why). Cops were really nice to crazy girl. 10 years later they seem to be a very short, effeminate looking guy with weird eyes who's taking testosterone. I guess, after the stabbing, some woke psychological ageny (oxymoron?) started convincing (lying to) her that she wasn't a girl.

No surprise from devs who thought the "right" ending to LiS was to un-use a power by using a power to murder their friend so they could save a town from using that power by using that power to murder... lol.
 

plan9
637 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2021
After playing the first free episode I have to say that the structure and the graphics are very good but not the story. Generaly I don't like to see things get political in games. Also, Tyler is a very unlikeble character.
 

HLIAS47
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 April, 2021
disappointing story
 

Donald_Anderson
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2023
As much as I love storytelling games, this one is way too heavy. I dont recommend it to young folks. Too fu*ckd up..
 

Hanyu
0
2 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.5 hrs on record
Posted: 27 July, 2022
Product received for free

Single Mom attempts to kill one of her twin daughters, INSTANTLY regrets it! | Dhar Man
 

Emerald Heart
101 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 18 November, 2021
⣀⣠⣤⣤⣤⣤⢤⣤⣄⣀⣀⣀⣀⡀⡀⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠉⠹⣾⣿⣛⣿⣿⣞⣿⣛⣺⣻⢾⣾⣿⣿⣿⣶⣶⣶⣄⡀⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠠⣿⣷⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣯⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣆⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠘⠛⠛⠛⠛⠋⠿⣷⣿⣿⡿⣿⢿⠟⠟⠟⠻⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⡀⠄
⠄⢀⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢛⣿⣁⠄⠄⠒⠂⠄⠄⣀⣰⣿⣿⣿⣿⡀
⠄⠉⠛⠺⢶⣷⡶⠃⠄⠄⠨⣿⣿⡇⠄⡺⣾⣾⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣽⣿⣿
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠛⠁⠄⠄⠄⢀⣿⣿⣧⡀⠄⠹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⣿⣻⣿
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠉⠛⠟⠇⢀⢰⣿⣿⣿⣏⠉⢿⣽⢿⡏
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠠⠤⣤⣴⣾⣿⣿⣾⣿⣿⣦⠄⢹⡿⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠒⣳⣶⣤⣤⣄⣀⣀⡈⣀⢁⢁⢁⣈⣄⢐⠃⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣰⣿⣛⣻⡿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡯⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⣬⣽⣿⣻⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠁⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⢘⣿⣿⣻⣛⣿⡿⣟⣻⣿⣿⣿⣿⡟⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠛⢛⢿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⡿⠁⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠉⠉⠉⠉⠈⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
 

BiznisMan
42 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 6 July, 2024
transgender character
 

Lord Endermen
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 27 February, 2024
This game is trash. No hook. Boring story. Don't waste your money.
 

Yourimagina7ion
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2021
Really boring game. Bad story.
 

Uks0
27 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.4 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
Scenes were good, But Didn't find the story quite engaging or interesting. Was bored after a while.
4/10 so far.
 

Classified006
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
Soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo booooooring !!!!
 

Galiwarix
412 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 August, 2024
game boring, game not for me
 

RiverMenace
43 products in account
1
8 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 23 April, 2022
Product received for free

This "game" is f u c k i n g terrible
 

RedYoshi3000
250 products in account
2
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.4 hrs on record
Posted: 14 December, 2021
Product received for free

rosszabb mint a Life is Strange 3, pedig az is szar
 

Bannoltuk MN
2,703 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 23 February, 2024
the only 'thing' (lesson) I got out of this game is that these type of ppl are psychologically disturbed drama queens, who think they are justified doing whatever it takes to maintain their disturbed state!

pathetic game..
 

I Borg
0
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2022
i played almost an hour and the game is really uninteresting especially compared to L.I.S and telltale's The walking dead.
The theme is not really my thing and you didn't have to dedicate a whole game to a person that has transitioned. This game did not need to have that and it's obvious that the developers didn't try hard enough for this game. The mage has almost no repeatability given your choices don't actually matter. not relatable at all, Im pretty sure anyone who has played this game has not been transitioned and their mother actually attempting to murder them. boring ass game

3/10
 

FartinFighter
46 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
24.7 hrs on record
Posted: 7 September, 2022
Product received for free

Found out that i'm GAY
 

B33B0Y
123 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 September, 2023
.
 

Donovan
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 22 October, 2022
knock off life is strange
 

Bmoe
0
2 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
14.4 hrs on record
Posted: 28 October, 2021
Product received for free

a lot gay ♥♥♥♥
 

loukaspsindrou
4 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2024
"Tell Me Why" its just fricking cutscenes
 

TerraFlop
39 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
31.6 hrs on record
Posted: 25 November, 2020
I cant really say much good about this game. So the soundtrack was nothing special at all. There are some games I purchase the ost because it's that good, this is not one of them. The story is very boring. The biggest issue i had was the characters. Almost every character was plain dull and had no interesting qualities to them besides Tyler's sister. Tyler by far was such a struggle to play to the point I took a break during his playthrough. Has a huge attitude and is completely unlikable. can't even be nice to his sister. Then they pushed some political bs in the game about guns. Atleast it was a little more subtle then in LIS 2 where they made you believe that all Mexican people get treated that way and that border patrol is evil. Neither this game nor LIS 2 can hold a candle to the original. Atleast LIS2 had decent characters and resolutions. I would give this maybe a 3.5 to 4 out of 10 but I honestly regret this purchase and will steer clear of these games with hidden agendas. Thats not to say I'm against representation but A. Not every game needs to do it and so in depth and B. It needs to feel fluid and just true. This game used a potentially stereotypically mom not accepting a trans kid and to me it felt way to forced, not to mention I couldn't stand tyler literally at all. I dint think I've disliked a character more since probably ever. Big huge miss on this title. Hope my review helps and saves you readers $. Stock with life is strange the original. That game fully invests in the characters and gives you emotional payoffs. Can be a tad cringy high-school ish but nonetheless a great game.
 

elserath
0
17 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2021
main character is tran, thats it
 

raindezed
62 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 11 November, 2024
don,t know why other found this games story good totallly awaful story i just wasted 529 inr rs totaly not worth
 

ASSASSIAN 47
38 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 September, 2020
The controls are unresponsive. It takes seconds to anything happen when you click.
 

balika011
146 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2024
Product received for free

play "who is my father?" detective
10/10 mentally ill people
story is ass
 

harley's poison
83 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 24 September, 2021
Not a good game
 

Jkiller
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2024
Tried it for over an hour and it is so boring.
 

MistaMM
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2023
Boring...
 

Tempest
163 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 April, 2024
Product received for free

boring
 

-path󠁳⁧god.
127 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.8 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2021
EZ no chapter 3
 

奇迹我最大的粉丝怪胎
0
3 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 8 February, 2023
Yaaaaaaawwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn.

A great game if you're an angst-minded teen-to-twenty-year-old who likes to spend free time depressed and bummed.

Not for me! And I'm gay.

(watch Lumps Plays on YouTube cuz who doesn't love a dead channel of awesome videos?)
 

LumpyPoofter
483 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
If i hadn't gotten this for free i would have asked for a refund
its less a game and more a sociology questionnaire.
an interactive story where there is almost nothing interactive a few very basic puzzles and and the aforementioned sociology questions, "a guy flirts with you do you shut him down or flirt back"
 

Gunner
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
The company DONTNOD Entertainment is a discount Tell Tale product. And Tell Tale is a discount movie you know one of those movies you get from the 5 dollar bin at Walmart. Something which I have to praise this game for is that at least you have the choice to make the main character a prick. Which the other games do not have. Other than that this game is ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. You do not have an interesting story, the setting of the game is probably the most LIBERAL VILLAGE IN AMERICA in a red state. As a member of the LBTQ+ sandwich I am appalled with the depiction of the world. ESPECIALLY when the transgendered character talks about learning how to deal with the outside world and is then unable/unwilling to deal with the outside world. The only way I could ever recommend this game is if you were a teenager and then you would be dumb enough to not see the flaws.
 

ArcheologyLady87
0
8 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
13.6 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2022
As a member of the LGBTQIA+ community I really enjoy the trans representation, but I just didn't find the story or the characters interesting. Also, I don't know if this was my computer or the game, but it was pretty buggy at times. The audio would glitch and it would lag while I was walking around. Looking for posts for support about this issue with this game was IMPOSSIBLE because of the title. It's so ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ basic and a common phrase in posts about game support that I couldn't find any help I actually needed. Honestly, this game isn't worth paying for free. I'd have to be paid to play this game while being able to enjoy it.
 

kenzdeli
0
15 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
11.0 hrs on record
Posted: 23 May, 2023
This is an interactive story about a family full of mental illness and degenerate behavior. The story is relatively depressing, extremely boring, and in several situations tries to force you into homosexual situations. One of the playable characters is a transvestite woman with severe gender dysphoria and who thinks she's a man.

I love all people, but I do not love all types of behavior. Wearing men's clothes, injecting yourself with testosterone, and having penile surgery does not make you man, evidenced by the developer's choice to voice the character with an actual man, instead of using a deep-voiced woman or an actual transvestite woman. The interactive story in this product felt more like political propaganda and less like a creative work of art.
 

Gaming Inpatient
0
12 people found this review helpful
8 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
6.7 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2020
I would rather play Days Gone with a fork down my throat than this game.

Amazing writing, good job to the chimp that wrote it!
 

Kwok
335 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 4 May, 2024
had to stop playin cuz tyler treated his lovin mom like garbage. ♥♥♥♥ woke bs.
 

Carlos Maria tres Cojones
538 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 23 April, 2023
Product received for free

Cringe Story
Promoting Certain Sick Group
 

deXT
31 products in account
0
37 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
Tell me why
I'm stuck as a virgin with rage!
Tellll me whyyy
I still need a cute girl my age!
Tell me why
I never want to hear you sayyyy
"I have a boyfriend!"
Never say it now!
 

✟Vengeful Lairdie✟
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2023
Just another gay game/movie/whatever. The narrative feels very slow and uninteresting. I enjoyed Life is Strange 1 and 2 but in this one I just felt like there wasn't much to do and I found the plot to be very boring.
 

gtrevize84
355 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2021
Product received for free

DIFFICULTY
☑️Easy
🔲 Normal
🔲 Hard
🔲 Extreme

GRAPHICS
🔲 Bad
🔲 Neutral
🔲 Good
☑️ Amazing
🔲 They don't matter

STORY
🔲 Bad
☑️ Neutral
🔲 Good
🔲 Amazing

LENGTH
☑️ Short (3 - 20 hours)
🔲 Average (21-50 hours)
🔲 Long (51-120 hours)
🔲No ending

WORTH BUYING
☑️ No
🔲 Wait for sale
🔲 Yes
 

Mpartos
124 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.7 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
Product received for free

I played the first chapter of this game. i wouldn't pay for the following 4 chapters because it wasn't worth it. The special mechanic of this game is nothing but recalling memories in a visual way and mentally talking to the other main character. If you like these "choose your own adventure" style games play Life is strange instead! the mechanic in that game of rewinding time is way more fun!
 

Quickpenn
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 January
Well I was looking forward to liking this game.... Nope... Too much Dialog not enough game play.. this should have just been a Movie, it still would have gotten the " Message " out there. Probably would have not gotten as much attention but it would have been an honest way to do it.
 

Seige
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
19.7 hrs on record
Posted: 30 June, 2022
Never in my life have I played a game with such unlikable characters. With the way they were talking about Marry-Ann, I assumed that she was a psychopathic monster. But no, turns out, she was a decent single mother who had two ungrateful ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ kids.

Also, I need to address the elephant in the room. One of the main characters is trans. And while that in itself isn't a problem, the fact that the game reminds me of this EVERY SINGLE MINUTE is (at least for the first two chapters). Look, I am supportive of LGTV+ community, but NOT when it's idealogies are forcefully shoved down my throat.
 

arsaja92
221 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.5 hrs on record
Posted: 6 February, 2021
Having played Life is Strange and really enjoyed it...
I thought this will too be like an hidden gem of those games that goes unnoticed....
This game is a piece of art no doubting it...Great attention to details...beautiful views etc...
But the story is too slow and you could go to sleep playing it and there also not much interaction...
To me its was way too slow dumb and boring !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I could not continue playing this and i stopped in middle of chapter 2.

 

Nuts all the way
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 14 July, 2021
kinda gey
 

Captain Alex
53 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2021
just no
 

strashen carvul
137 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 24 March, 2021
Sorry, but this is such a woke boring slogfest. Couldn't stand even 20 min of this game. Here is some advice to the dev team.Get woke go broke!!!
 

classygrott57
0
11 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2022
now i know why it's free
 

mat
39 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2021
Product received for free

kinda boring
 

Skysti
353 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2024
the game is ass.

That is all.

Seriously try to find a walktrough for the first hour or so it is ass.

I
 

Fruitsamurai4
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 November, 2024
damn did this game bore me to death in only 20 minutes
 

CharFurious
86 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
15.8 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2022
So this game isn't that awful but my lord do the cut scenes need to be THAT long.. Like I just lost interest after watching the longest cut scenes in history. Sometimes I just got so lost trying to follow the story line because I dont believe trans and the other thing that happened was compatible. So many question and little to know answers. And zero character development. People are comparing this to Life is Strange and its not at all like that. It was overall boring in every way.
 

Stormylights
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
6.2 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Great graphics and music, but do not expect an exciting and creative adventure like Life is Strange 1 or Before the Storm.
There are some emotional scenes here and there, but the story progresses extremely slowly, and the chores are very dull.

I sorta gave up at chapter 3, everything's just too plain.. but happy pride month everyone.
 

teemi
199 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 17 July, 2022
Pushes an agenda, every 10 minutes the game will demonize a character for not wanting to speak to you because you are a trans character. Oh yeah, btw since the game wont tell you until you just find out 5 minutes into the intro. Spoiler Alert ///










Tyler is trans. And the game will make sure every other sentence or new interaction that you are aware of it, or that you are keenly aware someone is very very good or very very bad because they treated you even slightly differently upon finding out. 0/10 Political Trash.

In terms of gameplay, it's Life is Strange mechanics with a more linear story. Just watch a lets play of the first episode then make your own judgement.
 

HypeLock99
379 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Posted: 26 September, 2021
Tyler made me transphobic.
 

Best Birb
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2021
Forced transgender character. This is offensive for human beings. The more you try to force it the more hate you're gonna make.
 

headlesscyborg
616 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.2 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2023
The game play was slow but engaging. However, the premise of the story line was disturbing and eventually killed (for me) what could have been a very captivating game play environment.
 

jgordhamer
0
12 people found this review helpful
13 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 14 June, 2022
Tell me Why you would play this game
 

Ledrake
0
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
5.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2022
not great
 

jakelol
164 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
Now i understand why it was free...
 

👑FraXenn👑
56 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 18 June, 2024
Glad I stopped at the boat, I almost lost an ounce of humanity.
 

zoblin
126 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 7 July, 2021
Product received for free

I got it for free, and somehow I still feel ripped off. Tyler complains nonstop, and refuses to open his mind to other's perspectives. He is always right apparently, and he has bias on every little thing. Most of it is wrong and based on nothing, yet that doesn't stop him from shoving it down people's throats. Too defensive.
 

Originalname
0
6 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2024
Product received for free

Never heard of this game and decided to try it for free. Most of the time was in the menu before playing a little bit into the story. Here is my guide to get best performance.

In Steam, go to Help, then Steam Support.
Search for "Tell Me Why."
Click on I want to permanently remove this game from my account.
Click on Ok, remove the listed games from my account permanently.
 

Hemorrhoid Relief
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 10 December, 2021
The game has no audio. I tried with an USB DAC, surround receiver via HDMI (standard) and the displays integrated speakers via DP. None play audio from this game, every other game, application, videoplayer or whatever plays just fine.
Additionally the game won't start a second time after the first run and just crashes. I have to reboot the computer before it starts again, which makes troubleshooting a real pain in the a**.
Now another guy loaded a crack and plays it with audio and stuff... For real DONTNOD Entertaintment!? What crap of a so
called copy protection did you use?

If I payed for this game, I would refund.
 

Corro Dedd
472 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 24 April, 2024
this game is ♥♥♥♥ boring characters looks beautiful tho
 

Bossmanzenith
0
21 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 11

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
3/10 life is deranged!!!
 

BallsToYouMyGoodSir
275 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
7.6 hrs on record
Posted: 28 February, 2022
Avoid at any cost! Play interesting game instead!
 

Silent HeadBag
0
2 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2023
Once I got to 'Tyler' I just couldn't continue sorry. I couldn't listen to that voice for the next 10 hours.
 

leparsdon
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 March, 2023
no. i don't recommend swjbgedfiqwdfibwwbfgeewbisabef neSAUIFBEO TPBVOtopwaetyvnOQWIYTVGoqwiytvQ0IYTVBIOPYTqopb toIBYEWOytopYQTOPBYPoqytbpoVY WT
 

classi
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 8

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
its ok, but for 20$ when most of this type of game has 5 parts and costs less. did they run out of money??
 

Hello My Name Is Inigo Montoya
0
8 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
bad dialogue. bad voice acting.
 

SouthernTrendBC
267 products in account
1
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 July, 2024
gay ♥♥♥♥ game
 

Has moro car
53 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 29 July, 2021
The store page deceptively lists this as a story involving a brother and sister. I can't believe I fell for this 👃 scheme and funded literal propaganda. The writing doesn't even pretend to be anything more than a didactic attempt at normalization. No thanks.
 

absolukely
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 25 September, 2020
Had this sitting in my library for a year (pre ordered) and never got around to playing it. I pretty much forced myself to play this 'cause I was curious and was pretty disappointed.
Huge waste of time. Everything you did was pointless and I could care less about these characters. Chapter 1 and 2 was preachy af.
Although, I did feel a bit sad for Alyson in the third chapter (when she finds out the truth of Mary). People were right about the pacing and it was just excruciating to get through. Garbage story too. It does set a sequel and maybe dontnod don't fk up.
 

godpk11
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
12.5 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March
DEI's wet dream
 

solacesavior
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March, 2021
Tried playing it for 5 min but it looked and seemed like ♥♥♥♥, so i uninstalled it.
 

Snowbound
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 15 September, 2021
slow, boring, and any creation that needs to shove some gender\religion\political opinion, is just awful
 

Oradul
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 28 January, 2024
gay lol
 

Opel Astra G 2001
118 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 July, 2023
Product received for free

It's kinda gay
 

Amadeo
632 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 17 February, 2024
Product received for free

Calling this a game is a stretch. It's more like a collection of cutscenes with an occasional choice to make.
Got it free some time back for some June promotion thing and only recently got around to trying it out.
The character story is interesting enough, but there's no action. Maybe it changes later, I dunno.

I'll probably keep going but it might take some weeks. For now, I wouldn't recommend to anyone looking for a game. If you're looking for a computer generated movie, go for it.
 

Disorganise
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
11.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2023
Product received for free

Cutscenes upon cutscenes, feels like there's not really anything to play. I've yet to complete the game, but it's definitely one of the most bland games I've played. I've yet to meet to a likable character and the main characters are so annoying and dislikable. I really hope this game gives some interesting choices to make to ruin people's lives or some stuff, cause maybe then I could recommend playing it. Barely worth playing for free. Do Not Recommend.
 

Escondido222
67 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2021
Fututi rationalizarea matii de joc ca mam jucat o ora si dupa am vzt cai ala gay bagamias pula in el degay transexual cu prbleme mintele mentale muie pride month sa isi bage tyler mana la puliele alora care o ♥♥♥ jocu asta va pup asa educatie
 

freakytugay
8 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 May, 2021
Review 2 minutes in:
I'm not sure I can get into this game like I did Life is Strange and Before the storm. Game-play feels sluggish and the characters are kind of dead, if it weren't for the transgender signalling I'd probably enjoy this game more, but hey if you're about that then go right ahead. If only LIS had these kind of graphics though, it'd be awesome.

As far as I can tell I'm probably not going to like this game predominantly for the transgender stuff; now you can call me a transphobe all day long, but I don't really care I'm just saying it because that's my preference. I'm not going into my beliefs or political ideology in this review because it's unfair to the game itself. I will play it just to say I did and to get insight into these characters, but beyond that I probably will not like it as I haven't really enjoyed the direction of LIS games lately. LIS has such a strong place close to my heart because I went through similar stuff, subsequently relating to Chloe Price, and some of the other characters in the game like Kate Marsh, but with the hyper-political environment that is the world today, it's difficult to agree to disagree. I'll leave comments on for those who want to comment about it, but do so in a respectful manner please. I'm not here to fight, but do want to hear opinions.

First Episode Edit (After two hours of game-time):
Yeah... I can't get into this, the first episode is only two hours but it felt like I played for four. I had to grab a cup of coffee half way through. I will give a 10//10 for the graphics, the sounds and the voice acting. All that is pretty decent aside from one characters voice actor.

That being said though, the main characters don't really have much life, and this is coming from someone who has a sister. These two don't act like siblings at all really (Except for their childhood), but once they meet back up it's more like they were friends than siblings. Tyler is kind of the type of character who believes the world revolves around him, especially when it comes to the past. He politically signals a lot and it got kind of annoying to play through with a "Environment this, or politics that, or transgender this." in every piece of dialogue, if he was trying to make jokes it was always drowned out by his personality which did not fit the same jokes he tried to make. He's combative with people who don't support his feelings or his opinions, and at times its entirely unjustified. I found myself liking a lot of the side characters more than him, and that's bad if he's the main character. For comparison, he felt more like a Nathan Prescott than someone we should feel sorry for and try to understand.

Alyson was alright, she was more sensible than Tyler. In ways she was raised differently than him and it shows through some of the choices you can make with her and some of her different memories, mannerisms, dialogue and personality. Of course every choice you don't make in Tylers' favor gains nothing short of his ire and wrath. On the side of memories that's actually pretty accurate between siblings, one will remember different things for better or worse and that was portrayed okish.

Their power The Voice is pretty cool and is a phenomenon that actually has some bearing in real life, I know me and my sister can read each others thoughts with nothing but our facial expressions and there's been scientists who have recorded this special bond between siblings. Which is more to the point of one of the core problems of this game, the two simply do not act like siblings. There's been times me and my sister have had the exact same humor and think the exact same thing when we see something. Hell, we practically have the exact same personality. That connection here feels forced, yet at the same time doesn't even set out to make them feel like they're siblings. It doesn't work. It's rare that me and my sister get into real fights or outright really disagree like these two do in this game, but I understand that might have changed for these characters (I wont spoil it), but me and my sister have a tough love type of relationship. We hardly have genuine conversations outside of making fun of each other or flipping each other off while also being there for each other, It's something I can't explain but can understand when I see it. When we do get serious or have genuine conversations about something it mattered and the other knew it mattered, here in this game it just feels like that sibling element is missing... I did not see it here, maybe a little but it was drowned out by Tyler's personality.

This chapter almost had me during the first hour when Tyler discovers truths about his mother (Again won't spoil), but once again his personality ruins it. The only good thing he does is to try and uncover that truth a little bit, which doesn't fit his personality at all. I would've expected Alyson to be the one wanting to know the truth, not Tyler who spent the last seven odd years hating his mother enough to form preconceived notions about her. When he discovers that they may not be true he goes against his personality to uncover some of the truth while Alyson does not want the truth despite appearing to hate their mother less??? This is supported by some of HER memories which appear to portray their mother as a person and not as an abusive parent like Tyler's does. Anyway it was confusing, their personalities were like split between them at times. You'd expect Tyler to be the one wanting to sell the house as fast as possible since he experienced the worst as a child and clearly hated their mother more, not Alyson...

There isn't much humor, and any that is there, is clearly political or even anti-offense humor... Makes it a snooze fest. This is worse when you realize there had been pretty much only one or two songs played in the entire first episode, at least the ones I noticed. It was eerily silent at times, and there weren't any scenes where you could just chill and vibe to a unique soundtrack like in LIS. Some of the ambient sounds were pretty nice and realistic and not overly done.

The puzzles, don't even get me started on that. I had to grab my reading glasses just to try and wrap my head around it as I read the same page four times over... They're too complex and make me roll my eyes whenever I see one. Not to mention the game forces you to read children stories for clues to these puzzles, thank god I could force my way past it but I know that is likely not the case for any other ones in the other episodes.

The decisions also suck, they're black and white and have no real effect, or weight other than a brash comment, political woke signal, or outright aggressive response from Tyler. "ReSpeCtK mY FeElinGs PHobE." is what I feel every time I hear Tyler's voice in the back ground.

But yeah... I'd rather play life is strange AND before the storm ten times over than another episode of this game... Which means I'm probably not going to buy the other two episodes if they're all like this...

Overall I'd give it a 4/10 and it's only that high for the graphics...
 

Rabbit47
7
8 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2024
Got incredibly boring fast also It makes it seem okay to kill your mentally unstable mother because you're trans and you thought she didn't like your haircut. I hate this game with a burning passion. no wonder they made it free.
 

StellarMist575
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 25 August, 2021
In short, it's ♥♥♥♥
 

prismo b e z d a r'
31 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 6 August, 2022
The writing for this video game is abysmal.
 

Brick Hardmeat
182 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2023
no
 

Avenger2109
44 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2022
I have never before played game as Woke as this.
No wonder it was for free... I feel really sorry for those who wasted their money on this, because paying money for this game is like throwing money in a trash can.
I barely made it 2h playing this game when it had reached my limits and I uninstalled it.
The "Rich Story" tag for this game is just silly... the story is very predictable, I didn't even finish the first chapter and could already guess how it will go on. I googled the story (because I was not going to waste my time playing this game) and yes, I was right, story goes exactly as I thought.

TO SUM THIS UP - Woke victim mentality game.
 

the_moon_over_my_head
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
7.2 hrs on record
Posted: 27 December, 2020
I usually love this type of games and that is why i ended up buying this over priced piece of poop. Well, game mechanics and graphics are decent. But basically the only things you can do in the game is to constantly look for old memories from the past and just investigate boring items around you. And then there is the awkward dialog moments that make just roll my eyes forcefully. The twins are basically a bunch of ridiculously dramatic teenagers. I can't relate to them at all especially the trans gender kid. It is just awkward to look at him angst about some older person not understanding about transgender related things AND when the older person tries to actually do investigate the idea and corrects him/herself then the kid STILL IS ANGSTY OVER IT. My fricking god. and just in general the LGBT forcing in this game is of charts and makes the game annoying as ♥♥♥♥. The trans kid seems to think the whole world runs around him and his transgender being. All of that is so annoying and takes away the interest in the plot in general.
 

Pöntsä
0
3 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
23.6 hrs on record
Posted: 30 September, 2023
I like games that follow a Telltale structure, if you have ever read any of my limited reviews it's obvious.
I have used ‘Steam’ since before it was ‘Steam’ so today please let me have an opinion… OK?
‘Tell me Why’ feints @ doing this but clearly pushes a singular stance and opinion, a very dangerous one that does not allow for any other. I do not have a problem with self expression, I have a problem with castration and self mutilation. This game forces you to support it and belittles everyone who doesn't. ‘Life is Strange’ gives you many choices on how to handle a situation, ‘Tell me Why’ does not. I think it’s truly sick to falsely teach a child that they can just change there body parts like ‘Mr Potato Head’ and commit them to a life of pharmaceutical intervention, your just making a eu·nuch. Please give me my money back, I feel dirty.
 

tekmonster
0
1 person found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
7.0 hrs on record
Posted: 15 September, 2020
Tell me why I bought this ♥♥♥♥ game for a meme.
 

lad48
250 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
3.0 hrs on record
Posted: 22 August, 2021
it sucks. Boring crap.
Don't buy chapter 2+
 

sysfs
164 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 9 April, 2022
Your choices don't matter, nothing interesting happens, and I can't be bothered to finish the game or this review.
 

MrShineHimDiamond
62 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2024
supports trans people do not recommend
 

hatricks_
0
15 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
14.7 hrs on record
Posted: 23 March, 2022
This game will spam your brain with political correctness until your head explodes.
You've been warned
 

X2QPS-TD8TN-728XX@渒껕鳌菉췕裫눟寶栀硱鉌睗存鴢
13,184 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 April, 2021
boring/ unrelateable
 

T15
158 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 June, 2024
In your face propoganda
 

adjacentgame
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 13 March, 2021
Why did this end up in my Library...
 

Kvaz
267 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
16.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
Pretty annoying characters. Uninteresting story. Woke bullsh1t.

Avoid.
 

Jelly Doughnut
2
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 22 July, 2022
Product received for free

Just fell asleep after 0.00001 milliseconds it got political
 

Dani Moromete
258 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2024
genuinely the worst game i have ever played
 

cretin
168 products in account
2
21 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2020
Don't recommend you buy this game. Trying to avoid the obvious thing that some may or may not like it for, the game play is not that great. It says your choices matter and their crucial but they dont really mean much and it seems almost as if they tried to replicate The Walking Dead and Beyond Two Souls together. Not a great game, would not buy.
 

Gman
328 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
14.9 hrs on record
Posted: 19 February, 2023
THEY DON'T TELL YOU WHY!!!

[this was my original review, before I had purchased the other chapters... I now feel differently]
Aside from my personal beliefs on trans and the LGBT community, I think this game is worth playing, at least so far. I haven't finished it or anything yet. I'm downloading Chapter 2. It's a deep psychological experience.

EDIT: I'm changing my review from "yes" to "no". The ending is disappointing. Stuff just gets thrown in there, and the "why"s still aren't really properly understood.

The entire game, Tyler is blamed for homicide (murder) when it was out of defence that they used the scissors. At most, that would be manslaughter. So 7 years away from home, because of self-defence, as a kid... (this is all mentioned in Chapter 1)
 

Sadie Milady
0
6 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
12.6 hrs on record
Posted: 16 April, 2022
I want to say I'm not Trans so the game basicially mainly only dealing with how hard is to be trans didn't speak too me at and that's fine I don't need to see myself in a game to enjoy it, but I can't sympathzie with any character in this game at all nor did it make me feel anything like Dontnod usually do and it wasn't fun to play. In fact Tyler the FtM trans character I absolutely despise. Tyler is the biggest whiney c*nt I have encountered in gaming. Even after he chastises people who only knew him as a girl to use his pronouns (Dontnod i love you guys but don't do this) and then the character he chastises goes to the internet and to best of his ability tries to find out how to speak because he doesn't want to upset or offend Tyler, and Tyler still complains and is angry at him the same way he is angry at at someone thats tries to convert him/her. Great job you painted someone who was a bigot and someone who wasnt both as villians and Tyler as the hero when Tyler is a garbage person. This is easily DontNod's worst game by far even if you like it is also criminally short (thank god it's short)
If you dont believe me that Tyler is horrible then during the course of the game you have to trust Tyler or his sister Alyson's recollection/expierence. Guess what? If you choose Alyson's side at any time Tyler complains and you strain their relationship. Basicially if you don't side with TYLER 100% and treat him as a godly gift to us poor mortals you're wrong according to the game. Hmm a Trans person needed constant validation and has to be treated special, I wonder where they got from (every loud trans person) If Tyler is a good reprenstation of the Trans community as some people say this makes me feel bad for those of you in the trans community for the direction the trans community is heading or has already arrived at. Tyler seems like the all day loud twitter tiktok trans person the "agree with me or your a bigot" type.

I hate this game, I hate having to play as Tyler, and I hate the story. Don't waste you time play one of Dontnod's better games.

F U C K Tyler.
 

Ash
364 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 31 August, 2021
degenerate propoganda
 

RealFrostyz
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 December, 2023
Product received for free

GAY af
 

Martines
28 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
 

Flee
25 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2021
Tell me whyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy whyYYYYyyYyyyy TELL ME WHY ain't nothin' but a mistake
 

Maroliver
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
5.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 December, 2020
good but still ♥♥♥♥ on a stick
 

KJ
0
5 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 23 January
woke xbox trash
 

kyle
0
13 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
Product received for free

Boring
and
Gay
 

AyeItsMike
118 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2023
Boring af play skyrim or mc, heck even roblox instead of this
 

CapitanoBull
0
2 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
3.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2021
Transphobic :/ with trans main character? how. How do you get that bad? I'm a trans man who's dealt with my family not accepting me, and honestly as much as I feel seen, I feel like this game has called me several slurs. It's disappointing.
 

Wolfbeware
144 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 September, 2022
I'm finishing this game because my OCD can't accept that. The story is exciting, but are the two protagonists obnoxious? It's something I can't put my finger into it, I don't care about any of them having finished two chapters already, and again I WISH I DID NOT HAVE OCD to finish the story.
 

Serrano Bruto
249 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2024
Product received for free

Just another woke g@y story. Disaster.
 

DaX
48 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 28 June, 2021
Completed the first chapter. Not interested in doing any more. The story is predictable and drags on, and the twins are whiny and annoying. As nice as inclusion is, the game still needs to be entertaining, which it isn't.
 

Acerbic
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2023
Slow game and full of politics. No thanks. Enjoyed the graphics tho.
 

Nhan1One
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2023
3gae5me
 

RealGhostly
0
5 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 31 October, 2024
Woke trash
 

rlazyboy77
51 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
Product received for free

Boring pointless neverending talks and same old LBGT theme..
 

evoLaCCio
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2023
snooze fest zzzzzzzzz, couldnt make it pass the boat ride.
 

ʀ ʏ ɴ ᴢ ʟ ᴇ ʀ
47 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 May, 2021
This is not worth your money. I'm very sorry to say this since I was excited to play.

I loved Last of Us 2 (10/10!). It wasn't woke at all, people who think so are simply wrong about that. This game is woke. Never go full woke.

https://newdiscourses.com/tftw-woke-wokeness/
 

OmegaSyrus
0
6 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
3.6 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2024
Product received for free

At the moment that i realised that this game is about a "boy" that is a girl , i immediately understood why , her mother is dead.

In her stead i would do the same thing.

What a bullsh*t of a game , time to delete .
 

Penetration Lessons
44 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 12 April, 2021
i couldn't even bare it it was that bad

it is super slow and so stiff like did the make this with go animate or what

and this game is desinged for the Xbox Series S and X. It looked terriable

just get the demo if you like it good for you

but i can't stand how ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ slow this is (keep in mind i love these kind of games Detroit and life is strange)

0/10 complete garbage
 

Wyserion
179 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.1 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2021
Product received for free

This g-dam ♥♥♥♥♥ propaganda "game" is god awful *even* more so then I originally have thought previously while watching ol'Null play this back in jan or feb...... i'll give you a low down of my own personal experience with this hot piece of garbage that is also known as a neo-gunt.
(I have no idea why josh bought this game at full price, because i would never have spent even a cent on this "game" let alone a dollar for it)


-Story is ♥♥♥♥ and cringy

-characters are cringy, ♥♥♥♥ and are hilariously bad (or are completely dislikable even when your not *forced* to like them either because of them being poorly written or purely forced to be so because strawman's)

-obvious commie propaganda being pushed in it is obvious (to tronnery to the average cali commie ♥♥♥♥)

-graphics look like poo even on high or ultra tier/type settings (grass looks low res/pixely, filters everywhere, there is also somewhat of a slight blur everywhere, the effects are also terrible in it, especially when going into the "Im troooooning out" super-power and the physics are just awful) ((this is especially jarring since this game either uses the new unreal engine or the assets of it, which really blows my mind, just like how the jannie does, when it finally figures out they can't have kids at all))

-you are directed to do the boring padding for the sake of time (did you know that the gobbo door can be destroyed without doing the god awful puzzle, the "game" doesn't really telegraph that you can, it only mentions it off the cuff, i thought it wasn't really an option because this "game" suffers from telltale syndrome most of the time or it just simply suffers from the crippling 'tism just like how every TIF does too, it could be that)

-The choices and the dialogue *are* poorly worded, written or thought of (for the most part) when they are prompted (written) or heard (voice), you'll think most of the time, that the most negative choice would be that, but it'll turn out to be the good choice or that the good choice that you thought was good was/is actually the bad one.

pro's:
+You can make the ♥♥♥♥♥ even *more* obnoxious and petty then it already is and it's downright hilarious to do, you should try that. (just like how they are in real life)
+"They call themselves goblins"........ ;)

overall i rate this "interactive movie" (because that's what it is) a 41%/100% (and as of recent increase of the classic stat in a recent study; 51%/100%).

also an honest,serious question here now: how the ♥♥♥♥ did this win GOTY?

The Remaster/Remake of Destroy All Humans should've deserved it; Now if you want a *actual game* I highly suggest it to you or anyone, as it has been beautifully, faithfully, thoroughly and in my opinion has even *surpassed* the original, in many area's, I have a review for it where I go more in-depth. but again in my opinion the new Destroy all humans is what the textbook definition of what a *Remaster* should be: "Redone, Masterfully"
 

Tzard Nickolas "The Lit" Romanov
591 products in account
1
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.9 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2021
gery vay
 

󠀡󠀡
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 24 September, 2023
Product received for free

Main character is trans.
 

Papiez Polak
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
19.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 March, 2024
Product received for free

Not my style. Too much blah blah and drama. Kinda Boring and slow game play
 

RoGreL
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
The games they make are getting more and more political.
 

Le⁧⁧¡Morfars Nisse!
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 6 July, 2024
1 of the 2 main characters is a boy and he is so ugly and uncharming that he became gay 💀,
this whole game is just for gay people to feel better and loved 💀 lmao didnt do a good job ngl
 

Art_bor
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.6 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2023
Nah man
 

ShAdOwRaVeN
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 28 December, 2024
Crappy crap crap rubbish
 

ArchieBrah
536 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 8 August, 2023
Product received for free

It is a ♥♥♥♥♥♥ game that is trying to force the idea that it is normal to have transgender people around, a CHEAP move from the LGBTQCXCOV or whatever ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ that is to make us forget about the fact that humanity has only 2 genders which are Male & Female and they are assigned to each one of us at birth, cut this ♥♥♥♥ and get back to being normal because it will never work.
 

M.Y.R.F
30 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.6 hrs on record
Posted: 22 November, 2024
Product received for free

I got it for free and even that was too expensive.

Another one of those games that I played together with my non-gaming wife. We've played some Dontnod Games before, namely Life is Strange and its prequel Before the Storm, and I also played Vampyr, and for what they were supposed to be, all those games have been solid at least. But this one? Oh boy. Basically the worst game I've witnessed in years.

Tell me why is just awful. The whole game is just a pitiful, desperate and contrived attempt of Dontnod to make a politically correct game about modern aspects of sexuality (Transgender, LGBQT, etc.), domestic violence, physical and mental abuse, problem families and all that stuff and it just fails miserably to get it's point across. The mentioned topics are handled embarrassingly shallow and painfully clumsy, the story is boring, pointless and full of unresolved plot holes, the two main characters are highly unlikable brats who murdered their own mother and the gameplay is so unengaging, that it took us about half a year to finish this 8 to 9 hours long game. This is one of the very few games where if i had paid for it i'd be seriously considering to get a refund.
_________________________________________________________________________________

TELL ME WHY
Genre: Modern Adventure / Interactive movie
Release: Q3 2020

( ) 0/8 Simply one of the worst games ever made. Don't waste any money on this.
(X) 1/8 Bad. Seriously flawed with barely any redeeming qualities. Worth a couple of Cents at best, if at all.
( ) 2/8 Sub-par. Only for hardcore-fans of respective genre / series. Don't pay more than 5 bucks.
( ) 3/8 Meh-diocre. It‘s okay. Don't pay more than 10 bucks.
( ) 4/8 Decent, but not for everybody. Don't pay more than 15 bucks.
( ) 5/8 Good game, Must-play for genre- / series-fans. Worth 20 to 25 bucks max, if you are not a fan.
( ) 6/8 Great game, universal recommendation. 30 bucks would be a steal for this.
( ) 7/8 Outstanding game, a milestone of it‘s respective genre. Definitely worth its full prize.
( ) 8/8 Simply one of the best games ever made. Get this, the prize doesn't matter.
 

Presto Ernesto
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 27 November, 2021
Not transphobic
 

Fat-Finger MaGoo
214 products in account
1
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2021
This game is no game it's a OCD triggering movie
 

ㄥoㄥıʞɐꞱ
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 December, 2024
Product received for free

In this game you play Tyler. The trans brother of your identical twin sister Alyson. I didn’t remember that when I finally played the game. When I learned that I was trans, I felt betrayal. As in I betrayed myself, my friends, sister, family, god, the world and everything. That was Interesting. Still I power forward.

The ferry ride was the best part of the game. Just watching the scenery. But I go and ruin it by having an awkward conversation with a rando who knew my parents. Having grown up having to explain my real world family to people, I knew several ways that conversation would have been natural. But not for me in this game. My character made this awkward. But, I go forward anyway.

Next childhood trauma is revealed as a major focus in the game. I don’t enjoy that. In flashbacks my younger self was acting out in ways that didn’t make sense. I was causing a lot of my own misery. Which I didn’t connect with. But I powered forward.

Flashbacks don’t use your given name. They use “Young Tyler” or Ollie. Both of which are true in their use. However neither was your actual name at the time. Your younger self hadn’t even thought up Tyler yet, so while "Young Tyler" is accurate, it’s not apt. I wanted to know where I came from and the light the game shines on my characters past is missing this simple thing. But forward I go.

Not long after that I’m having a flashback to a bonding moment between sisters. Alyson says something like “You are the best sister” to which nameless me replies. “I feel like I’m your brother”. At this point I pause and I look back on my own life and realize that I never once felt like my sibling’s brother. I just was their brother. After that I lost interest in the game. More accurately I lost interest playing Tyler. He’s too much of a twit. I’d rather have played his sister.
 

Renegade Knight
0
7 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Too slow and boring.
 

AnDre_x8x
571 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 July, 2024
nothing much u can expect from a game where the third top tag is gay
 

zenix
123 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
You cannot click on objects from far away like you can in The Walking Dead. In this game, you need to get up to close to the object in order to interact with it. I'm not mad, just disappointed.
 

Random Ryan (RETURNING SOON!)
46 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
Painfully boring
 

plagueseason
585 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 July, 2023
Product received for free

Talk a out shoving political ideologies down your throat. It's not even subtle insertion in the game. Right off the top and not even 5 minute in and its the transgender and animal rights crap. For that very reason, I can't recommend that game. Keep the agendas in your own minds, not in games.
 

jw500
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 16 September, 2022
Product received for free

The games story is boring and uninteresting to the point I barely made it past crawling under the cabin. I'm sure some people will like this game but personally I find it awful. The graphics are decent and I love the location it's set in but it's not enough to make me enjoy this left-leaning game.
 

CrimsonFlow88
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 25 January, 2022
too boring. i tried to play this game twice because i really wanted to like it but i just couldn't be bothered with the story and the characters. first time i quit in 5 minutes, second time i tried really hard but still ended up quitting after 10 minutes lol.
 

melonalee123
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
Very slow plot if any plot at all. Graphics are nice tho.
Transgender agenda being pushed really hard and no one understands tyler? Really? No one? That's dumb.
 

North Bear
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
The story is boring and the characters are disgusting. I recommend playing Life is Strange by the same developers instead.
 

Minikin
559 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2022
Utterly boring.
 

lithiumsok
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 26 October, 2023
First of all: F*CK propaganda of LGBTQ-. I mean this game literally yells about this sh*t, developers even made the main “conflict” based on “HoW cAn TheSe StUpId PeOpLe NoT PeRcEiVe TyLeR”. Therefore throughout whole game we will hear how this p*ssy complain about this.

Okay, what we have besides propaganda? Nice graphics: DONTNOD always adds nice visual for their games. What else? Nice locations, and all DONTNOD’s games don’t disappoint at this point. Well, that is it for this game. I do not like plot in this game, because it is slow as f*ck and lame and I am not satisfied with the end of the game.


It is better to play LiS 1 and LiS 2, at least it is interesting.
 

invincible
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
12.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 April, 2021
Nope it's 2021 and this game can't even have multiple monitor support as the game will take the settings of the second monitor and shove it to the main one. WTF Badly coded game. Do not buy if you have multiple monitor that has not the same resolution. Because i'm a YouTuber and record the game on a second monitor i have to unplug the monitor then start the game then go to the main screen then minimise the game then plug back the second monitor then place my streamlabs onto my second screen. Then i can play in my main monitor resolution which is 4k. If i don't do this then i get he resolution of my second monitor which is 1366 x 768. This is the only games that does that. BAD CODING.... I regret buying this game. Will never buy game from them ever.
 

XxFri3ndlyxX
274 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 11 June, 2022
crnge
 

Timmern
233 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2023
I don't like the story
 

KingScorpio13
0
12 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 September, 2020
nah
 

Roy
101 products in account
2
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.7 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
Ok so long story short, DONT buy it, just get it when its free

Just dont, the story makes no sense, and i dont actually care
its only good for xbox and steam achievements
but thats it

rip :(
dont play
even when its free
it sucks ass
 

JRspike12
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 7 July, 2023
When I got to the point of opening cheat engine to try to fast forward the overly drawn out sequences with nothing to do, I realized this isn't worth playing. Unlike a game like Detroit: Become Human, you have no meaningful choices so just do yourself a favor, skip having to click constantly, and watch a playthrough on youtube
 

TEA || IT'S CHRISTMAS
457 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
14.3 hrs on record
Posted: 8 September, 2024
Woke. 3/10
 

fex
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
the only thing good about this game is that it looks kinda similar to Life is Strange's art style, which are better games than this one.
 

《Kenzo》
472 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 19 August, 2023
trans 🤢🤢🤢🤢🤢🤢🤢🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮
 

rub^3
254 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2024
Here's why I don't like this game(I was on a call with my brother while playing):

First of all, I did not know anything about this game when I got it. The only reason why I have it is because it was free. As a pirate of the internet, this has appealed to me. I downloaded it and realized that why they made it free.

When Tyler and the sister(can't even bother to remember her name) first meet each other, my guess was that they were going to have magical super powers that allow them to sense, feel, or hear each other from far away. I was pretty on point.

When Tyler was trying to take off the planks to get under the house, I said this to my brother: "Oh noooo! I'm too weak to take off these planks! If only there were a tutorial on how to use my powers, then maybe I could find a way through!" In case you haven't played this game, there was a tutorial afterwards explaining how to use your powers to get the screwdriver.

Every time that the sister started yapping as I search the outside, I had to go to the audio settings and turn voices all the way down. I literally could not hear her for any longer if her dialogue has nothing to with what I'm doing or the current plot.

In these types of games, they like to bloat it with "lore" and "environmental storytelling." I'm not the type of person to listen if it has no purpose, so I try to guess which parts actually continued the story and didn't just fill it up with literally nothing. First of all, when you enter a house to collect something, go upstairs. Ignore bathrooms and closets and head for hard to miss doors. When you enter a room, look for containers. The thing you are looking for will always be hidden in a box or drawer. This piece of advice actually helped me solve the first puzzle as quickly as possible, but I genuinely hate how it worked so well.

After I obtained Tyler's diary, I was super bored. The music and visuals try to make me feel something, but I feel nothing. This is when I said that I would play this game tomorrow. Here I am, writing a review instead of playing. I am pretty sure that I guessed more things about this game within the first few minutes, but I have forgotten if those events even happened at all. This game is extremely forgettable. I probably will not notice that I own this game until years later.

Here's what I actually liked about this game:

The sister had a working mirror in her room. I might replay the start of the game just to have a look at how great that mirror looks compared to other games.

As a lover of AI generated nightmares, this game feels like it heavily influenced how AI generates their stories. That may be because of their hidden bias and how they are always supporters of the LGBTQ+. This game doesn't feel AI generated, but AI generation feels like it came from this game.
 

Yoyo355
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 July, 2022
is so bad i what my money back and it was free
 

ImRich
0
27 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2020
Product refunded

0/5 - Unbearable.
 

John B.
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2021
Propaganda. Catering to the 0.6%.
 

Melloncollie
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 1 October, 2024
more boring than current day rainbow six siege
 

MOM PLOWER
355 products in account
0
79 people found this review helpful
7 people found this review funny 12

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Any game that has reviews like"pushes inclusivity to the forefront", "a new benchmark for queer representation", "masterclass in compassion and empathy" and already has a bunch of awards from places you never heard of before, and gives away the first chapter for free, tells us this game is not about gaming but about pushing a political agenda.

I uninstalled this game so quickly once I realized what was going on and cannot recommend anyone exposes themselves to this type of indoctrination and divisive and hateful politics.
 

fenixzenn
287 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
3.5 hrs on record
Posted: 13 August, 2024
Story was absolute trash, for "inclusive" audience only. no enjoyment, story constantly derailed for trans hardship and inclusion messages. Characters are bad people, and murderers, but it's OK because they did it to defend their trans rights. Not what was advertised at purchase.
 

Deimos Drak
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 8 April, 2023
So many things that are not logic in this game. the story is great, but for the lgbt side?
- Why use real man for Tyler voice? why not using any trans man out there? its not logic trans man have voice like a real man.
- Tyler family is poor. where did she get money to do the trans operation? its not cheap
- Michael is gay. but he love Tyler? doesnt that make him straight? LOL
- Kid seriously thinking about want to trans? Dude, kids only want to play and be happy. they will not think this complicated ♥♥♥♥♥.
- Im glad im that 1% choose Tom's testimony because there is no way a mother want to shoot her daughter using SHOTGUN.
 

elenix
0
12 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2021
boring
 

shyhhau
496 products in account
0
12 people found this review helpful
12 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
discount life is strange
Tell me why I need another pet rock?
Tell me why I got that Alf alarm clock?
Tell me why I bid on Shatner's old toupeeeeeee
They had it on eBayyyyyyyyyy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 

VahidSlayerOfAll
4,474 products in account
4
14 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
lgbtq
 

Kenny
54 products in account
0
15 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 11 June, 2021
it pushes an agenda rather than on a focus story
 

KingNapkin94
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 8 December, 2023
It's just filled with leftist political garbage. Don't play it if you don't want to play as a trans with an awful personality.
 

TheTreForce
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2023
Really boring start and have no effor to play it.
 

_natto_
30 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2024
i fell asleep 3 times in the first 35 minutes of the game the game tell an extremely boring story about 2 sisters.. (well he sure act like one )
at first i was thinking this game is troll made as an experiment of the developer to see how long can he waste gamers time
i dont care if the game is free !
400$ or i call my lawyer !
 

ozz
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 22 April, 2023
I identify as a chair. A whole load of woke BS. Women that think they are men, how would they even know what a man is, let alone how one feels?? To mutilate yourself and swallowing some testosterone won't make you a man, ever. Stop this nonsense and put all these FREAKS into a gulag.
 

Goodman
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
Tell me why
Does everything that I love get taken away from me?
Why does everything that I love get taken away?
You take me to the edge, push me too far
Watch me slip away, holding on too hard
Tell me why
Does everything that I love get taken away from me?
How come nothing ever lasts?
It goes from good to bad to worse so fast
All it takes is one and I'm gone
And you can't erase the past
How come nothing ever lasts?
 

Hambo325
335 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2022
IS SO BAD story for the game
 

saudneo
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2021
I will tell why i didn't like this game.

Very cringy i didn't even check what this game was about, i just like "Choices Matter" story
 

jimbalok
284 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 May, 2021
Trash
 

Dzigan
39 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Boring. This type of game is past its glory days.
 

Rostburken
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
Product received for free

Absolute trash. Not worth anyone's time. Even thoe it's free, it is too expensive. Because time is money.
 

PlumBum257
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2023
don't play this
 

Zobra
300 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
13.8 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2021
Product received for free

Dear DONTNOD,

Please stop forcing in lesbians and transgender people into your games just so you can get free clout, they don't deserve your mediocre writing and lazy game design, even if you've updated your graphics to late 2000s level quality. Thank you.

Happy pride month!
 

541hans
257 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 21 March, 2024
That can't be true. This game is full of political ideology. Transgender ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ and green energy and Al Gore to boot, lol. The people who are so hung up on green energy keep forgetting that green energy isn't green at all and that without fossil fuels there would be no green energy at all. I'm really tired of it and now I've been bombarded with all this ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ in this game too. Good thing Episode 1 was free. But actually I should be paid to play such political ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥.
 

LN
713 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.7 hrs on record
Posted: 28 December, 2024
I bought this game because until yet I was fascinated by the LiS games. With this one I was a bit disappointed when the story focused on a transgender protagonist. In my opinion, the game is aimed at a specific group of buyers to which I do not belong.

I think players who are also looking for novels specifically in the LGBTQ+ genre might get their money's worth here. Even then, I personally find the story a bit bland and tame.
 

buddyhu
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2024
Story-wise I guess it`s fine
The characters seemed poorly animated, when the same developer had created the "Life is strange series".
Dialogue choices were confusing, because choosing lets say the third one as the first one, it may not make sense for the question or sentence that was said right before the choices.
Dialogue it self is very forgetful
The only sane character in the whole game was Allyson, everybody else are backstabbers and people who "know" better than you.
And people are raising awareness for people like Tyler who is self centred, narcissistic, a victim, egotistical, entitled... Every 4th or 5th sentence in the game references that somebody is gay or that Tyler is transgender.
The game could`ve been very informative, yet it was just gay. Just too gay.
 

YESStrawBerry
102 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 3 March
Táto hra je len LGBT propaganda
 

:_B3N_:
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 July, 2024
gay
 

EggsNdGwakie
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2024
LGBT propaganda getting everywhere, no wonder they are giving it away for free.
 

Unique^
373 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 July, 2023
Oh, Ollie, you're such a dumbass. You can't be a boy, if you have womb. Being a d***k to everyone around you does not count.
 

youkai20
433 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 July, 2022
GAY
 

Timbo
48 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
11.6 hrs on record
Posted: 7 April, 2021
I really love Life is Strange games, but this game feels so annoying because it's so desperate to play the politics card in the defense of the transgender movement. The story itself is nothing special, it's very predictable and not emotional at all compared to Life is Strange. I don't recommend it because it didn't make a good impression on me. Suit yourself!
 

Resident_Legal
0
7 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
13.2 hrs on record
Posted: 5 September, 2020
After fallen in love with LIS and other games like that, i had alot of hope for Tell Me Why.
Sure LIS 2 did not turn out to be as good as the first one. And im sad to say that this is a another game in wrong direction.

Storywise its okay but the animations is more than bad, you are facing robots everywhere..
Maybe spend more time optimize the game instead of find the "right" voice actors.
if i didnt had known the fuzz about it before i played, i wouldnt known he was trans at all.
The work he did was okay but it could been done(if not better) from anyone that got some experience as a voice actor.

Found some minor bugs while walking around, thats okay and probaly patched now

This game isnt a long way from being a good one tho.. i still get that special LIS feeling when playing, but this is still a step backwards compared to LIS 1.

I would say if you can get it cheap on sale buy it if you love LIS, but at full price you can find something better to spend your time and money on.
 

Professor Balthazar
1,690 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
good evening lady and gentelmens and the other 72 genders out there.

On the cover of the game it looked like a good game, but when i started playing i got bored really fast, like i never wanted to alt f4 out of a game that quick.

If you really like idle games this is something for you (even if its not an idle game)

MFG Negusslayer69 :^)

 

Mc Flaki
38 products in account
8
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 30 July, 2023
I probably didn't play enough to review the game, but it's too boring. I have nothing against visual novels, but here the writting is just very shallow. Maybe it's a slow burner, but I don't have the courage to snooze through the rest of the game.
 

AcidSweat
192 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
Very clunky movement. Graphics could be dialed up a bit. Nature of game is very political.
This game offers far too much reading for me and the topics covered as well as the way they are delivered leaves much to be desired. I'll take Postal 2 any day.
Thanks for the time and efforts, though.
SSWHCM
 

Donni Kubbitz
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
21.1 hrs on record
Posted: 22 August, 2021
Product received for free

They were probably too young to decide his sex.
 

fantastory
88 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2023
Product received for free

trans propaganda don't play
 

Koishi~❤
200 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 21 August, 2021
Boring. 7 minutes intro? Really?
 

tomdorotka
0
7 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.8 hrs on record
Posted: 13 June, 2021
i would rather torture my own ♥♥♥♥ and eat my own ♥♥♥ then playing this ♥♥♥♥♥♥ 8 hours ♥♥♥♥♥ movie game ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ dev
 

Newmeta
0
8 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 February, 2021
This "game" is about a very long, slow-paced, tedious, uninspiring story. Very disappointed.
 

MuLuMi
249 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 31 July, 2022
Im not going to play a game that wants to force feed far left woke ideologies down my throat.

Its my own fault for not doing research before i bought it in the sales.
 

JohnMac
1,134 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.8 hrs on record
Posted: 6 July, 2021
Product received for free

Chapter 1: Trans Trans Trans Trans Trans Trans Trans
Chapter 2: F*ck the PoPo
Chapter 3: Jerry Springer's Revenge

A contribution to the collapse of western civilization.
 

HyperDebtRay
578 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
5.9 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
The game looks so similar to Life is strange. I've encountered some bugs but nothing that big. I played LIS and was a big fan, the story was so additive and the options really made me experience it on my way.
This game on the other hand, is trying to push the woke concept, even tough you have some options, the game is going all the time to the genre concept and its on that all the time, trying to make us feel empathy for the female character that converted into a man(sorry for the spoilers, but the game is just about that). I couldn't fell any of it, tough i tried to go further in the story but there was not much to it, it was all the time going to the same point. It got so boring that i quit after episode 1...
 

Sueko
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 27 June, 2021
Since nobody reads this I can say how much I hate epic games, I am from Latin America and every time I try to download the games they give away I cannot turn off the pc because the download is deleted, its launcher is full of errors, and with all that They pay companies for their exclusive knowing that their platform is complete ♥♥♥♥, ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ epic gays

btw the game is boring delete after 2h
 

LuisPa
285 products in account
1
19 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
This game is not good; not at all. Pushing agendas and undertones... Listen, add some for a story, but dont drown someone in an ideal and lose the sight of the game. BAD GAME; NOT WORTHY A FREE PLAY THROUGH OF CHAPTER 1.
 

Tegdap Fodder
232 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2023
Dialogue, writing and voice acting are awful, way too slow-paced overall
 

LaughingGrenadier
195 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.6 hrs on record
Posted: 5 April, 2021
I kinda liked it, but the characters are insufferable and ungrateful, leaving aside whatever bad happened. Also, very disappointing about the transgender propaganda, the story honestly could has been great without it.
 

Serverclosed
0
2 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
10.7 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2024
Two years ago I got this for free . And I wish I was able to get a refund for the six hours I wasted playing this game
 

arslanmalik696
0
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 4 February
cringe woke game
 

on gang
42 products in account
0
14 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: 29 June, 2021
It has LGBTQ+ tag
 

edzhons
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 11 April, 2021
uh...no. not for me.
 

saige
0
21 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
10.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
Somewhere beneath all the shilling for Eco-Facism and jumping on the band wagon to normalise mental illness, there is acutally a solid story buried.
And at least, unlike Life is Strange 2, it dosen't have underage sex scenes.
 

AnEvilJoke (get/rekt)
0
6 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
2.8 hrs on record
Posted: 1 September, 2020
I dont feel interested,no where near lis1-2. Story seems fine,but not very exciting.So far i havent rly had anything happen or people to talk to/relate to.
Having the gender focus is also fine,but it makes it rly hard to relate. And the fact that gender,race,sensorship of speech and thoughts are being pushed in your face every day the last years dont help.(guessing the problem is its not something i see or encounter ever.)
Just have 2 hours in, il might change this if i push through and feel something. Go play lis or beyond two souls unless your rly interested in in gender.
Big topic in the games they make,is not new.(rape,depression,racism,teen anxiety/problems.etics,drugs.Frankly it seems like gender is the only next one unless they would go for vegetarian or corruption/greed,sexualitys.
lis i felt alot of diffrent things i remember from childhood/growing up.
lis2 i felt a constant responsibility for my brother and his well being as a brother and a father figure.
Here i just dont get any links to drive me forward.
Feels like your not going anywhere or anything is happening,Going to one place in town to another asking people about mary.
 

Kleen
380 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 20 June, 2021
I thought I would play this for the fun of cringe. Yeah there would be a lot of pandering and you will hear word trans at least 100 times in the first hour. When I started playing the game was incredibly boring so I was hoping it will become more fun when I gradually progress. But it was dull, dull, dull , dull. Great game if you want to fall asleep from boredom.
 

Captain Diabetes
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 12 July, 2024
Product received for free

Nah ♥♥♥♥ .The game started well I liked it but this transgender ♥♥♥♥ just sucks. It had a lot of potention but they just wasted it dont play.It is just wasting your time . I just got it free now i am deleting it from my acc.
 

Armas
34 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 4

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 21 September, 2023
Product received for free

The product description is well crafted although they miss one important fact, that you are forced to play a transgender character which can be a daunting obstacle. Had the developers chosen to include mainstream characters and not try to pander to a certain community, this game could have been a success.
Should have been more inclusive, giving the choice for players to choose if they want to be a transgender or a homosexual character.

Owing to the above mentioned issues, unfortunately, even for free, this game is a hard pass.

 

SentinelTi
0
7 people found this review helpful 2

Not Recommended
2.1 hrs on record
Posted: 6 April, 2021
Very first impressions of Tell Me Why is that the art style looks nice and the VA sounds competent enough so far. I have to mention another game IP though. Life is Strange 1 and even Before the Storm is totally relatable, because it focuses on the timeless archetype of the star-crossed lovers. So LIS/BTS was more inclusive to a general wider audience. It also didn't do overtly one sided modern political nonsense. I don't mean the trans-stuff, because I see that can be written using a relatable timeless classical archetype in modern times.

Tell Me Why one suffers from current day political messaging and things like that date faster than a used condom. The creators could of really done the timeless shapeshifter archetype without the current day political nonsense. LIS1 can go onto be a timeless classic of the star crossed lovers archetype.

This game could of had been one of those timeless classical archetypical stories, but nah they messed it up. The game also touts it is made from the advice of advocates? I don't see this one getting through to the normies that much. Maybe ask for normie advice next time the major voting block.
 

BanOphobia My Struggle
463 products in account
0
21 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 15 July, 2023
There were no homosexuals until the Normans arrived. With the French, emerged decadence, debauchery and hedonsim. Promiscuity is incompatible with proud Anglo Saxon culture. Dywedwch na wrth gyfunrywioldeb!
 

Hereward The Wake
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 17 August, 2024
Product received for free

took me 5 minutes to realize it's *more* hella gay woke ♥♥♥♥ from dontnod, spare your time guys...
 

xvikxd
90 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 22 January, 2024
uninstalled at the trans stuff.
 

Nate_Xwell
16 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 24 March, 2024
I got it for free and it wasn't worth it. Just skip it and play a good game.
 

glu
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.9 hrs on record
Posted: 20 February, 2024
Too much LGBTQ, side characters have shallow backstories, you can literally decide what you believe in and that will become the story - choices don't matter at all. Can't recommend it.
 

Phoney
155 products in account
2
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 12 June, 2022
bad. so. incredibly boring. as a trans person this felt like conversion therapy.
 

gruppyup
0
3 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
7.8 hrs on record
Posted: 28 February, 2023
DONTNOD's worst game by far. Story is so lackluster, boring and terrible. Nothing was ever interesting in the plot. Whole story is basically about reminiscing about past events. Characters were very unlikable. One of the main character is a trans (Yuck) which made the game painful to go through. Got this game for free and even then I won't ever recommend it
 

ChaosBuster
1,191 products in account
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 October, 2024
Had I known what the agenda behind this game was, I'd have avoided it. it contains overtly pro-LGBTQ+ messaging. If that's not your thing, I suggest giving this game a hard pass.

From unconventional storytelling approach to being a walking simulator, this game is everything, but good. The story progression is extremely slow and there are a ridiculous amount of cut scenes.
 

BORG
287 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.1 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2024
awful, horrid, dreadful, disgusting, moronic, ♥♥♥♥♥♥, and dumb game.
 

Ergars
38 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
2.0 hrs on record
Posted: 14 March, 2021
Look at me i'm so woke.
 

A n a s t a s i a
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.6 hrs on record
Posted: 25 December, 2022
f**ked up story
not recommended
 

ShazzaD
27 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 6 April, 2024
Woke DONTNOD stuff.
 

Factoring
485 products in account
0
18 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 10 March, 2021
boaring
 

HafoHD
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.8 hrs on record
Posted: 15 June, 2023
Product received for free

This interactive novel is fortunately free. It would have been unthinkable had I paid a penny for it. It tries to educate us that a 12-year-old girl "feeling" she is more of a man than a woman is far more mature and sophisticated than the herd of ignorant adults who live in "East Jesus Nowhere". I "played" or more accurately clicked the mouse a few times for about 9 hours until the game reached an apparently well-known and already-reported-many-times glitch after which the game stalls at the start of a conversation. Yes, one does not look at the teeth of a gifted horse (the game is free after all), but really, I cannot say a single positive thing about this novelette. Do NOT waste your time with it.
 

henryguise
0
6 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2022
degeneracy
 

Jold
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 10 May, 2023
.
 

Stevie
0
16 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
Alphabet trans soup from very beginning. Will appeal to 0.6% of US population.
 

SpyderCanopus
347 products in account
0
10 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
4.3 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2024
blatant propaganda of "trans kids"
trans character arc is poorly written, has lots of fake narratives
mockery of same sex attraction where "gay man" hits on "trans man" (biological female). this tune is an attempt to erase gays, coerce gay people into relation with the opposite sex under false pretend "trans man is a man, trans woman is a woman"
extremely slow and boring story
clunky controls
xbox as publisher makes sure to earn DEI points by giving away this propaganda every pride month

this game is a showcase of harmful trans propaganda, therefore not recommended, especially if you're in LGB
 

<<---{!}--->>
7
5 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.6 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2023
boring
 

Deejudanne
766 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2023
A "Sword Fight Game"...
For free is expensive!
 

Serginho
161 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
26.9 hrs on record
Posted: 30 October, 2023
Product received for free

TeLl mE wHy
 

CutterChop
91 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.0 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
Does this Kool-Aid taste funny?
 

pdreamscape
0
2 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 September, 2023
Game has a freaking trans in it... real normal games dont exist no more ffs
 

SchnekZer
32 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
11.8 hrs on record
Posted: 22 June, 2021
Product received for free

SO MUCH DIALOGUE
 

MintedMystique
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2023
⢸⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⡷⡄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⡇⠢⣀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠈⠑⢦⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀Are you wasting my money again, son?
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⠖⠒⠒⠒⢤⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠙⢦⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⣀⢤⣼⣀⡠⠤⠤⠼⠤⡄⠀⠀ ⡇⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠙⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠑⡤⠤⡒⠒⠒⡊⠙⡏⠀⢀ ⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠑⠢⡄⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠇⠀⣀⣀⣀⣀⢀⠧⠟⠁⠀ ⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠸⣀⠀⠀⠈⢉⠟⠓⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⢱⡖⠋⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⢺⠧⢄⣀⠀⠀⣀⣀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⣠⠃⢸⠀⠀⠈⠉⡽⠿⠯⡆⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⣰⠁⠀⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠉⠉⠉⠀⠀ ⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠣⠀⠀⢸⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠀⢇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡌⠀⠈⡆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⢠⠃⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠀⠀⠀⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠷⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
 

Mattin
112 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
10.0 hrs on record
Posted: 22 August, 2024
Product received for free

It STINKS. I hate this game's face, I'm glad I picked it up for free though so I could leave this nasty review for it.

I was surprised at a few moments along the way, but not really overall whatsoever. I gave it a chance. However, several of my suspicions were entirely confirmed. Much of it was how I expected, enough to come away very securely in posting this review.

It's copaganda. It's also privileged hipster garbage. The characters are annoying as hell and are garbage, particularly Alyson and her police chief God-daddy.

One of the only good things about this game is the graphics. I would say the "atmosphere" also but, not so fast.

The plot sucks and is not introduced in a very elegant manner. I'm not talking about most of the documents and stuff but some of the notes near the end that are somewhat vague and particularly, this book from the the siblings' childhood the game expects you to read through or look at. I didn't and just looked up every puzzle solution immediately.

To be fair, I may have missed some of the plot because I simply didn't care enough about it to be interested enough to pay attention to it at times. I suppose it would be very unfair for me to review this without paying attention to it as thoroughly enough, in my view, as I had. Good enough still, it's difficult and often pointless to be try to be genuinely interested in things that one is not interested in whatsoever. I gave it a chance.

Something else that makes no sense in this is the transsexual (am I not allowed to say that? ridiculous) male character named Tyler wants to get with a dude. Last I checked, pretty much 99/100 times women transition to being men because they are... get this.. gay (lesbian). Sometimes it's a matter of "fitting in" more from a distance in society because of society drilling it into everyone's heads that gay, etc. is an insult. Perhaps for some folks it's easier to appear assimilated from a distance sometimes as opposed to something more natural.

Sometimes for similar reasons, some folks who "identify" as a Furry refuse to identify as gay even though they probably are in addition to whatever else they claim to "identify" as. Notice about the lack of quotation marks around the other part because it's a legitimate biological attribute one has, unlike "identifying" as a Furry which is some relatively recent cultural thing that is not equivalent whatsoever. Also, very few of you had much to do with what happened in the 70s and 80s and the civil rights pioneers who led the way for you to waltz into.

For similar reasons as well, "straight" dudes who clearly aren't what they claim to identify as when that's not actually the case (do I need to explain the quotation marks) retreat back into the closet in order to further assimilate because of it being drilled into their heads that gay is primarily a pejorative by the rest of a bigoted theocratic society.

So anyway, yes, I hate the plot. Why? Is the REAL REASON something I'm not willing to acknowledge here? If so, what is it pray tell? Let me go into some more detail then.

This is a story about two schizophrenic siblings with telepathic abilities they acquired from a government research lab who grew up and lived in a small and hateful podunk town in Alaska, filled with a bunch of rednecks, transphobic Karens, and perverted fishermen. Their mother died, who was somewhat out of place in this podunk town, and now they're sad. The local police chief was their godfather, he's an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ and his name is Eddy. You'll encounter some other randos in this town and most of them are also pretty hateable people. This is clear-cut copaganda like some cookie-cutter copaganda show on TV also, another strike against it.

I thought all along that the real father was who it turned out to be. I also have no idea how the mother lost her [blank]. You'll have to play this piece of ♥♥♥♥ to find out more (read more stuff in it and pay more attention to it than I did I guess, I don't know how something that important can be hidden away and not talked about by the characters much though, but ok). But I think watching a marathon of Maury Povich would be more ideal.

I always thought that there would be a moment where you are tasked with breaking into the armory at the police station in order to obtain some heavy firepower to shoot up the place with. That'd be a great idea for this and would've made the game more interesting. But, in the end, this is an extremely depressing, dreary, god awful damn soap opera piece of ♥♥♥♥. At least soap operas have that calming lighting.

Also, please don't feel like you need to put more than 4 letters in the acronym. It's ridiculous that some individuals actually feel the need to or have some problem with folks who point this out. Well, you can be sure that my motivation is not out of any hatred or bigotry, as that wouldn't even make any sense if you understand who I am as well. With that unpleasantness and "disclaimer" out of the way that I shouldn't feel the need to have to say in the first place: some of those letters are just synonyms of "gay" anyway and it applies in addition to the "T" part.

But again, like I said, over generations including even recent ones, it's been drilled into everyone's heads that gay is an insult and therefore the self-label will be avoided more often, and again, in part in order to appear assimilated from a distance. The other excessive letters past the 4 in the acronym are either synonyms or very select groups that have nothing or very little to do with the LGBT civil rights movement.

And no, it's irrelevant about responding to my point by describing for example, an asexual person being an activist for said cause. That's fine, I'm not dismissing anyone's efforts whatsoever. But, come on folks, their issue has nothing to do with the rest of it.

When have you heard someone berate people for being asexual? Never? Once by chance, maybe? Ok.

When have you heard someone berate gays, lesbians, transsexuals, etc.? Always, every day, including in your "escapist" game servers that naturally ooze out political views that the bigots won't admit to. Then, mention something about Trump, or whoever or whatever, and "the sky is falling, I'm scared". The escapism myth, very pathetic.

Moving on. Compared to their other titles, I guess this is "moderate" in a sense. It might not push as many conservative "buttons" as their other titles (if this is even the same dev that I'm thinking of?) despite what it depicts. Maybe the copaganda balances it all out. Just something to consider for the CHUDs out there.

Another thought about this... if this was advised by, among others, some mental health professionals or organization, like the thing with the annoying "breathing" sequence, etc... big deal. Many of them are quacks.

"Cultural" advisors. I wonder what that entails? Am I supposed to assume that these people speak for everyone and think I'm supposed to believe that their experiences or the ones they possibly envision is all that's there? Let me bow down right now then.


♪
Tell me why
Ain't nothing but a heartache
Tell me why
Ain't nothing but a mistake
Tell me why
I never wanna hear you say
I want it that way
♪
 

Disgruntled Cuttlefish
173 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2021
Product received for free

9hrs, no FAQs
easy, almost too easy, just a scripted movie/game.

was fairly 'meh' going into this and even more 'meh' going out. What appears to be another crank at the LIS handle comes off a a cookie cutter experience with no real redeeming features other than semi-realistic stubble.

The game spends its time with cringeworthy lines and story worthy of 1998-2003 hollywood flims and doesnt have any real likeable characters who depart as quickly as they are introduced. There is a tacked on, what I will describe as a "T" element of this game that really isnt a feature at all. it just a drop in character model that seems to only satisfy the publishers 'woke' token for their quarterly inclusivity checklist. This element could easily be replaced and the few items thrown in to validate the inclusion could be pallet swapped out to make a normal brother and sister.

What few puzzle elements are there are woefully underused. What I was expecting to be a hunt through pages of stories to hunt the narrative and prose to find the answer turned out to be "hunt the box", "find the number" and "spot the difference" to get the in-game answer. Very disappointing. At least they are playing to the region of American gamers who presumably cannot read.

Could do more with
-Compelling story
-puzzle mechanics
-Looking at the artwork (models/levels) as part of the gameplay rather than saying "Remember that tree by the window? well your not going back there!"

Could do less with;
-memory mechanics that dont serve a gameplay purpose other than serve as a trigger the next set of lines.
-trying to cater to all choices of lifestyle to make a quota that doesnt have a link to the gameplay.
-unskippable long soliloquies
-every character gaslighting every other character
 

FrozenFood
0
9 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
2.7 hrs on record
Posted: 27 July, 2024
The only purpose of this game is to promote being transsexual. The whole story is literally about becoming a transgender. I stopped playing the game when it "teached" me that you have to say 'transgender' instead of 'transvestites'.

If you loved "Life is strange" for it's great story, don't waste your time on this. This "game" is just a big brainwash.
 

Giga
239 products in account
1
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 9 June, 2024
You know how some people are just bad at being human? This game was written by those people. “Help, I made and am making terrible decisions, and now my life sucks.” Uh huh.
 

squeak
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2021
trans
 

Fosh
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
4.1 hrs on record
Posted: 28 December, 2024
way too slow and basically just a game trying to promote lbgtq
 

chris_afxon
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
6.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 October, 2021
Omg just NO!
 

AMCC
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.0 hrs on record
Posted: 19 July, 2023
Product received for free

Terrible game, ♥♥♥♥♥♥ propaganda.
 

Wulfhaz
911 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 October, 2023
Product received for free

this game sucks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1111. no guns,way too many cut sceen the main character looks gay cant kill innocent people bad game -69/420
 

heavy gaming
19 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2023
too western and delusional for me.
 

NEB
47 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2022
No thank you, not my cup of tea.
 

MrG721
0
31 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
12.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2021
I EXPECTED BETTER
After playing Life is Strange 1 & 2, I was pretty excited to try this game out and bought it before they start giving it for free, but honestly the whole game makes no sense...

It feels so random like completely random stuff gets added to the episode which changes the whole plot out of nowhere. I expected more from the game but it's still worth the experience.

6/10
 

Jelly
718 products in account
0
21 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
9.1 hrs on record
Posted: 6 December, 2020
Overall, not impressed with this game. The story line was weak and the there was minimal character development. I did like how the story changed the perspective of some characters but at the same time, I feel this game was too focused on promoting a LGNTQ+ agenda.
 

walker.nicole
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 16 March
this is the worst game I've ever played in my entire life.
From the aqward silent moments where it felt like the voice actors forgot their lines to the terrible animations and terrible scripting the game is overall awful I played this on the steam deck and the graphics looked like the game was made to play on a phone it felt like this was made purely out of frustration by the devs because the trans community were blasting them on Twitter to make one it's unbelievable that dontamnond entertainment can go from highs like Life is strange to lows like Tell me why in my opinion devs should have paid you to take this horrendous game off of their hands if you want to try it it's always gonna be free in June every year I seriously don't recommend buying it
 

yaboiagentkelpy
51 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 8 February
Product received for free

Gay
 

holyherbs
90 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.5 hrs on record
Posted: 29 July, 2023
A girl had a surgery to be a trans man than loves another man WTF ??? Tôi ủng hộ Samsung TV
 

D10.zerot69.說謊
179 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2023
Why are you gay?
 

🍺 Kvass enjoyer 🍺
406 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
If you're not progresist then don't play it, I leave it when i use the sister with testosterone.
 

M de J
0
15 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
4.9 hrs on record
Posted: 10 April, 2021
Such a propaganda.
But it has some nice winter views...
 

Lirael 🍄
438 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
3.9 hrs on record
Posted: 14 August, 2024
no thanks,( graphics nice, feels like life is strange but...) the TQIA+ agenda is just wrong, main character is just selfish and makes everything about yourself.
 

Hjalgrimur
25 products in account
0
7 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 24 June, 2022
Product received for free

Boring, Trite, Propaganda.
 

hardyj850
0
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
6.3 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2020
This is the worst game I have ever played. It's more like a movie with the player clicking a few times to direct the way the game goes. It can't even be called a game. It's all cut scenes some of which are over 10 minutes long. I literally fell asleep playing this. I would not recommend anyone waste their money on this trash unless of course you feel like wasting big dollars on a movie then feel free to buy it. Don't say you weren't warned.
 

Wendyz Cafe
179 products in account
1
7 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 9 December, 2021
_____________________________
⠄⠄⣿⣿⣿⣿⠘⡿⢛⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣧⢻⣿⣿⠃⠸⣿⣿⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⣿⣿⣿⣿⢀⠼⣛⣛⣭⢭⣟⣛⣛⣛⠿⠿⢆⡠⢿⣿⣿⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠸⣿⣿⢣⢶⣟⣿⣖⣿⣷⣻⣮⡿⣽⣿⣻⣖⣶⣤⣭⡉⠄⠄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⢹⠣⣛⣣⣭⣭⣭⣁⡛⠻⢽⣿⣿⣿⣿⢻⣿⣿⣿⣽⡧⡄⠄⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⠄⣼⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣶⣌⡛⢿⣽⢘⣿⣷⣿⡻⠏⣛⣀⠄⠄
⠄⠄⠄⣼⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣦⠙⡅⣿⠚⣡⣴⣿⣿⣿⡆⠄
⠄⠄⣰⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⠄⣱⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄
⠄⢀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿ FСК SJW ⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄
⠄⣸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠣⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄
⠄⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠿⠛⠑⣿⣮⣝⣛⠿⠿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠄
⢠⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣶⠄⠄⠄⠄⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡟⠄
_____________________________
------- SJW -- GARBAGE --- DETECTED -----
 

1701
1,213 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2024
one of the worst games that i have ever payed , the story is just disgusting and the game play is so limited .
NOT RECOMMENDED
 

Dietsukie
34 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 19 July, 2024
Product received for free

trans propaganda
 

Lima
101 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 23 June, 2023
.
 

TND
25 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 17 June, 2024
No wonder it was free.

It's propaganda.
 

Gaz
0
4 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
6.2 hrs on record
Posted: 19 December, 2021
2/10

1. Promotes an agenda of transgenderism.
2. If you're Christian, or are capable of any rational thinking, don't buy this game.
3. It's boring.
 

JediMasterHam
0
6 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
Product received for free

in place of review I'm posting my comment, removed by moderation as "inflammatory" (with 1 month gamehub ban). since I already wasted my time on providing criticism and that time was truly wasted because apparently you can't post this kind of criticism on forums, here's why I do not recommend this game:

~
since I can see this game is built on false narrative and has inaccurate representation of mental health, and main character is a person with serious mental health issues I don't have to play it to know what the story is. stories of every such person are all the same and equally uninteresting for people who cannot relate to their leaking roof.
and as empathetic human I would feel bad playing for this character with leaking roof. you know? funny fact, if that kid would get real therapy while being held in institution this game story will stop to exist because everything is built around that leaking roof. all the "struggles" are the result of it.

I see people discard this game because there's trans in it. Little do they know, that's probably not even a trans but confused girl who's trauma wasn't worked on. pathetic representation for mental health, even more pathetic representation of trans (or do you believe all trans people are psychos? if anything this game does trans people a disservice by portraying their life like they're just kids who had no access to mental care)

that case when game fails to deliver by showing trailer and opening scene.
this game feels like M$ grabbed Dontnod's behind and forced them to make DEI game for their catalogue. I enjoyed the Vampyr but this game is complete degradation in terms of story telling.
~

if you ever intend to get involved with games like this one, make sure to post your honest opinion in reviews as this section of steam can't get you banned for posting your opinion about fictional character.

UPD. don't waste your time posting pathetic out of touch comments about intersex, how I'm dumb or *phobic and so on. I will moderate all the nonsense as it's my space. If you wanted to have a discussion you should have refrained from false reporting my posts. Now the discussion with you is over. Everything you post here will be thrown to dumpster.

everyone else welcomed, I'm open for your questions and opinions.
 

kitty
148 products in account
1
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
4.5 hrs on record
Posted: 9 April, 2022
A slow boring game aimed at transexual trangender fluid neutral something or other. No idea what the point of this game is.

Bring on the GUNS!!!
 

dazzadazzadazzadazza
0
5 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 28 November, 2024
I didn't relate to anything about this game. I didn't grow up with trauma or have gender identity issues. Don't play this if you're a normal person
 

:3
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.8 hrs on record
Posted: 8 July, 2022
To gay for me
 

Mr.Based
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 4 June, 2024
LGBTQ+
 

ヤクブ (Jakub)
256 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 11 October, 2022
man for woman voice actor + gameplay more boring than dear esther
 

Ace1
238 products in account
0
13 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 31 August, 2020
Too slow paced. Not interested in the story / plotline.
 

Jo3Black
0
21 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 4

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 23 May, 2021
Tran this tran that. They over play the whole tran thing. Very slow and boring
 

GNiTe00
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.3 hrs on record
Posted: 15 October, 2024
Not sure why many recent games are released with woke storylines.... This would've been a great game if it was n't because of that.
 

LubDub
0
3 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2024
Product received for free

Point and click choose your own adventure story/ This is not a game. Its an interactive movie. Pointless dialog. Trash as far as i'm concerned.
 

Bubba
0
3 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 14 September, 2020
eh, nah
 

Cecell
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2023
Product received for free

sucks everything sucks
 

438
265 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.5 hrs on record
Posted: 5 July, 2024
Product received for free

This game is dookerson, the person you play as is trans and that is absolutely disgusting. Seek help if you think it's right, you have a mental illness.
 

solid milk
4
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 July, 2023
Product received for free

ABSOLUTE TRASH!!
This game is for brainwashing young generations and making them think that they are the biggest victims there are in this world... and to show a caring mother to whom just the most horrible thing happened- a daughter becoming a "son" is a psycho and not the daughter who is suffering from gender disphoria is just altogether mentally sick.
 

Zizanic
27 products in account
0
18 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 8 October, 2021
Wow, when the main character was apparently a girl and suddenly she gets to be he at the beginning, they didn't need to "tell me why" and I turned it off.
"Life is strange" was somewhat gentle with LGBTQ issue, this is like..way too assertive.
<번역>
와 게임 시작할때 분명 주인공이 여자였는데 갑자기 남자로 변할때 별로 "왜"인지 알고싶지 않아서 껐다.
라이프 이스 스트레인지는 이런 비슷한 이슈가 있어도 걍 좋게 젠틀하게 처리한거같은데 이건 좀..강요받는 느낌이다.
 

Dead
1,833 products in account
0
3 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2023
dont need another trans issue being pushed on everything
 

nsaneseal
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 7 October, 2024
g*y
 

Bigger
0
29 people found this review helpful
14 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 18 September, 2021
Twitter Bio: The Video Game.
 

Kaidan Jericho
6
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 11 September, 2024
Product received for free

trash woke.....
 

𝘝𝘺𝘯𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘢🎀
135 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.9 hrs on record
Posted: 11 March, 2021
i hope you guys wiped ur a s s e s after taking a big dump like this
 

Orgasmatron
1
15 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 31 May, 2024
Tell me why this game sucks so much balls. Oh wait!! the main character doesn't have any! I don't get the point of this game, is it supposed to be telling me something? If I have to give it credit in one department, It portrays trans people in a perfect manner. The trans man main character is the whinny unlikable hipster that looks like he's succumbing to the dark powers of the one true ring. Ugly gross goblin. The only redeemable character in this story is its mother who tried to kill it for being trans or something, but even then, before i stopped playing it the game started to set up a plot where she might have not actually been transphobic which is lame. The most brainpower used while playing this game is to determine which one of these decrepit looking characters were trans, because they all look like they are whittling away from taking HRT. Maybe trying adding some game-play to your game. I guess they couldn't add much gameplay because they were to focused on making the worst story in the history of people-kind.
 

shrexy
494 products in account
5
15 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 3

Not Recommended
4.2 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2023
LGBTQ tag
 

Pork Bun Vendor
205 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
4 people found this review funny 2

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 1 June, 2023
Waste of time
 

T9
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
8.9 hrs on record
Posted: 7 June, 2021
Product received for free

Got this, when it was free.

Tyler, she to he. young age was a tomboy, a girl liking boy things... that means your trans

Edit:

After playing the whole story... it was okay could of been told without the trans stuff
is it gay for a trans guy to be with a guy or is it straight with more steps?
 

Panfur
0
1 person found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 1 November, 2022
If your looking for a review on this game you've come to the wrong place, but if your're looking for an outstanding pie recipe you've come to the right place.

Ingredients:
1. 6 tablespoons unsalted butter
2. 1/2 cup white sugar
3. 1/2 cup brown sugar
4. 1/4 cup water
5. 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
6. 1 pinch salt
7. 5 apples - peeled, cored and sliced
8. 1 pastry for double-crust pie

Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C).
2. Combine butter, white sugar, brown sugar, water, cinnamon, and salt in a saucepan over medium heat. Bring to a boil, remove from heat and set aside.
3. Roll out half the pastry to fit a 9-inch pie plate. Place bottom crust in pie plate; pour in apple slices.
4. Roll out top crust into a 10-inch circle. Cut into 8 (1-inch) wide strips with a sharp paring knife or pastry wheel. Weave the pastry strips, one at a time, into a lattice pattern. Fold the ends of the lattice strips under the edge of the bottom crust and crimp to seal.
5. Pour butter-sugar mixture over top of pie, coating the lattice, and allowing any remaining sauce to drizzle through the crust.
6. Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes. Reduce heat to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C), and bake until the crust is golden brown, the caramel on the top crust is set, and the apple filling is bubbling, 35 to 40 more minutes. Allow to cool completely before slicing.
 

gabitzu
192 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet 0

Not Recommended
6.6 hrs on record
Posted: 16 July, 2022
No, just no, this is somehow even worse then life is strange and I thought you couldn't get worse then that kind of propaganda.
 

Mercenary X
1,940 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 28 August, 2023
Woke garbage + boring af.
 

chxr1s
42 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 25 June, 2021
Very bad game
 

Agh_Rgl
14 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.2 hrs on record
Posted: 15 July, 2022
Now,I know why they gave it for free.Cuz it's trash.Boring story,flat and annoying characters,lgbt+ they shovel into your mouth and boring bond mechanic.
 

dfejus
241 products in account
0
5 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
16.0 hrs on record
Posted: 2 September, 2024
Bullshjt trans, bullshjt DEI, bullshjt story and bullshjt bait
 

Vuong Xeto
313 products in account
0
9 people found this review helpful 1

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 2 June, 2023
plot: pseudo trans kid kills her mother because mother didn't believe her. ( sounds about right from New Wave Queers )
it's really disgusting because the trans "man" keeps saying the most misogynistic things because of her transition. it's such an unbelievable setting thinking that she actually knows what transgenderism is back in 2004 as a young child in Alaska in the middle of nowhere, it's like seeing a Honda Civic in a medieval fantasy world. this is not good representation for actual transsexuals, which is the actual term BTW, and not the misogynistic homophobic term that transgenderism use from new wave queer agenda to instill disgusting gender tropes to the sexes. take notes from actual transsexuals like Blair White and Buck Angel.
anyways this game is just generally misogynistic in every way.
 

K3MaMi
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.0 hrs on record
Posted: 26 June, 2022
──────▄▌▐▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀​▀▀▀▀▀▀▌
───▄▄██▌█ beep beep
▄▄▄▌▐██▌█ GAY porn delivery
███████▌█▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄▄​▄▄▄▄▄▄▌
▀(@)▀▀▀▀▀▀▀(@)(@)▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀​(@)(@)
 

BloodKitten
345 products in account
0
11 people found this review helpful
6 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
16.0 hrs on record
Posted: 29 August, 2020
Unbelievable... No ultrawide support...
 

JJRain
0
2 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 1

Not Recommended
0.2 hrs on record
Posted: 11 February, 2024
This game is meant for woke and LGBT people. Everywhere you see leftist ideology disguised in the game. I regret to buy this game.
 

Del Funky
0
4 people found this review helpful
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.8 hrs on record
Posted: 11 June, 2022
I couldn't even get an hour into this game it feels like pure Trans propaganda. From the start they alienate anyone who doesn't wholeheartedly support trans rights and paints them as evil. If your a normal human being who believes that are are only two gender and doesn't like a wet paper of a story its not even worth playing if its free save your time and play anything else.
 

Harklight
220 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 30 December, 2023
If you have moral code, do not play this game!
 

Geno
1,087 products in account
0
8 people found this review helpful
5 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2022
Game is smaller than the lifespan of a tran
 

[ꡙ]Killerman[GR]
267 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.4 hrs on record
Posted: 30 August, 2021
Game boring and the human interactions are alien like. Poopy voice acting.
 

Craven MooreHed
0
12 people found this review helpful
3 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.3 hrs on record
Posted: 5 June, 2021
was expecting an Until Dawn type game but nope. it's Left propaganda
 

Cakerbudz
66 products in account
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 9 August, 2021
I fell asleep.
 

Skurpe
0
2 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.7 hrs on record
Posted: 3 June, 2024
The guy is not a guy. Urgh. Deleted it.
 

Players Devil [GER]
43 products in account
1
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.6 hrs on record
Posted: 21 November, 2024
no where in the game description does it say one of the twins is transgender. I believe in common science! You will ALWAYS be the gender ( no matter how you carve it up) you were born. I choose not to accept that these people are not actually the sex they have surgically and chemically manipulated their bodies to mimic. If i had known transgender was apart of this game, i wouldn't have bought it, goes against my belief.
 

lizmac21
76 products in account
0
No one has rated this review as helpful yet
1 person found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
8.1 hrs on record
Posted: 3 July, 2024
Product received for free

LGBTQ+++ Grean Peace woke propaganda.
If you want play god games play Detroit: Become Human or Heavy Rayn or Beyond Two Souls. And if you want really god masterpiece of choices matters game play enhanced PC version of Until Dawn (will be available at steam this year).
 

✪ NiF. SixKillerLV
0
11 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.4 hrs on record
Posted: 10 June, 2021
*Deep sigh*
I hate it when games get deeper into deeper leftist/Right ideologies and apply them to video games to push them on to people. I thought this game would be enjoyable. I can't get anywhere in the game without hearing about trans issues. I'm here to play and enjoy video games to escape reality and live in another's shoes. I want to escape reality and this game does not do that. Life is strange involved LGBT things but they didn't ride it head on into the crusade like this game did. It got to the point where I couldn't even stand it anymore.

If you don't mind listening to the games based input than by all means play it. The graphics are good, the story has potential and the game feels like Life is Strange. But it's missing something, and that's the disconnection between current world issues.
 

Dr. DUDS
192 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.3 hrs on record
Posted: 7 May, 2024
Gay. As dusk falls better. Story is about some girl transforming to male and if her dead mother supported the change or was against it. With these assets they could have made a better story game but decided to waste on some transformation
 

dipayansaha
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.6 hrs on record
Posted: 8 June, 2023
don't drink bud light!!!
 

RickyRicardo
0
3 people found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 13 November, 2024
Boring, not ethical, indoctrinating propaganda.
 

boris
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
1.7 hrs on record
Posted: 25 December, 2023
lgbt ♥♥♥♥
 

Crazy Th1ngs
0
2 people found this review helpful 5

Not Recommended
2.6 hrs on record
Posted: 6 June, 2023
sodomite propaganda, skip .
 

despara
17 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
2.8 hrs on record
Posted: 14 April, 2024
Product received for free

LGBTQ crap
 

Urker
56 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
2.2 hrs on record
Posted: 10 December, 2022
very gae
 

Sladek
93 products in account
0
4 people found this review helpful
2 people found this review funny 0

Not Recommended
0.5 hrs on record
Posted: 21 May, 2023
Abhorrently repugnant!
 

StreamingDad
108 products in account
0
1 person found this review helpful 0

Not Recommended
9.2 hrs on record
Posted: 3 September, 2022
Good story overall, but the agendas while some of them can be somehow avoided didn't have to be pushed in it that disgusts me I just want to enjoy the game. there should be more checkpoints/savepoints, sometimes I quit the game and return repeating a long cut scene and gameplay which is really boring considering this slow based game.
 

Kassperplus
